__label__4 I simply cannot believe how over-zealous the users of this site are. Actually i can. It was exactly the same for There Will be Blood and every other hyped film there has been recently. Some of the adjectives used to describe Avatar beggar belief: 'The Best Movie of All Time' 'A Masterpiece' 'Mesmorising, Spellbinding, Extraordinary!'. I really do wish i could agree. I was looking forward to this as much as most and i'm a huge fan of Cameron's previous work. Avatar, however, is a massive disappointment, and i'm convinced once the hype surrounding the technology and CGI dies down people will realise that. It really is a reflection of the times that people can be so suckered in by fancy visuals and things blowing up. Please, for a moment, look at the merits of this film, CGI aside, and you'll see that they are pretty much on par with a hundred previous sci-fi b-movies/TV-series. The story is completely derivative, the action unrealistic, the dialogue.....oh God, don't get me started. James Cameron has obviously been spending far too much time with George Lucas. The dialogue is atrocious and painfully clichéd. There is no convincing character development at all. I can barely remember any of their names let alone have any sort of affinity with them. Sam Worthington is a waste of space. I don't know what this Hollywood fixation is with him, but he was terrible in Terminator Salvation and he is terrible in this. The cartoon, morally-vacant human 'baddies' are an insult to intelligence and unbelievable at every turn. The entire plot is 100% predictable. Of course we knew the humans weren't go to win. Of course not. Not with their space-travelling, cryo-genetic-using, high-tech weaponary-toting mentality. They didn't understand the forest, man. Please. This is almost as laughable as Return of the Jedi. And the lame efforts to instill some sort of sentimentality and moral message through the use of poorly-written pseudo-spiritual crap just made me cringe. I wasn't even that impressed with the character design. Cameron has basically taken Native American Indians and Antipodean Aborigines and turned them blue. They have similar attire, ride 'horses', shoot arrows etc etc. It was just all too familiar.Avatar may well be a technological breakthrough, and i look forward to others who take the technology on and remember to actually pair it with an original and compelling story, but for now though, this film is a bulging case of style over substance if ever there has been one.I miss Aliens. Now that was a convincing movie.4/10
__label__4 It was very disappointing.I adored the first movie to pieces. I own the DVD and regularly play it on movie nights with my friends. It's great unexpected fun, quotable, and a visual spectacle. The characters are surprisingly likable, and Depp comes roaring in like a breath of fresh air as Capt. Jack.The problem with the third movie (as well as the second) is that it lost touch with it's roots. The first movie, while heavy with the supernatural stuff, was still pretty grounded in a fairly accurate real world. The characters were over the top, yes, but still believable, and above all, relatable. Their motives and predicaments all made a great deal of sense (i.e. Elizabeth wanting to marry Will, Barbossa wanting to be free of the curse, Jack simply wanting to get a boat so he could live his life of freedom). Unfortunately, in the new movies, the writers have lost touch with the first movie's charm. The plots are so convoluted it's difficult to decipher, much less remember, a character's desires and motives. It's much less emotionally grounded. It has also become so thick into this supernatural fantasy land that it has hardly any link to the real world at all. This would not have been a problem were the filmmakers not so intent on special effects and visual spectacles that they forgot to tell a good, solid story.I believe this movie would have been better if the writers had kept to a more straightforward plot and toned down much of the "grand spectacle" stuff which really dominated the movies.
__label__4 I'll say this: If you don't mind more of the same you'll probably love this movie. If you wanted something different, some change to the Marvel formula, you'll be disappointed. Age of Ultron is pretty much the same movie as the first one. Especially the ending which feels like it follows the first movie beat by beat.There are good, fun moments spread all through the movie, don't get me wrong I liked plenty of stuff in it. The romance between Hulk and Black Widow was interesting, this universe has been weirdly sexless so it was nice to see some tension between the characters. But good moments don't make a good movie. What annoyed me in Age of Ultron was how it just glossed over so many things. The story is extremely thin, even for a superhero movie.Tony Stark retired in Iron Man 3 and now he's suddenly back? They don't even try to explain his return. Tony Stark also creates Ultron, the main bad guy of the movie who goes to cause some major mayhem. The movie just glosses over the fact that everything is Stark's fault. Aside Hawkeye there isn't any character development. These movies always just seem to be about "setting something up" for the future movies and I think I finally figured it. The only thing they're setting up is more characters running around, bigger CGI punching bigger CGI and bigger thing falling from the sky. In the middle of all this it's just so hard to care about anything. All those previous movies build to this?Age of Ultron seems to just be in a hurry and jump over the story and get to the CGI punching CGI and oh boy there's plenty of that. The Avengers fight an army of generic, faceless and harmless CGI robots for 2 hours, roll credits. I just didn't care. There's no stakes in the action. When the characters are just joking around I'm not worried if they'll make it till the next movie.Marvel should have gotten serious in Age of Ultron. You can be serious without being all "dark and gritty" too. Joss Whedon said he was influenced by Empire Strikes Back and Godfather Part 2. Joss Whedon promised we'd see some superhero blood. Joss Whedon failed.
__label__4 As an avid Harry Potter fan who has read the books multiple times and of course seen the movies repeatedly, I was extremely excited to see this movie at the midnight showing. Half-Blood Prince is my favorite book and other than 7, the darkest book in the series.That being said, I was so disgusted with this movie. Yates & company literally turned it into Harry Potter comedy hour. I'm not sure how anyone thought this movie was amazingly dark when the theater was cracking up laughing the entire time at trite jokes. The only thing that should have been funny in this entire movie was Lavender & Won Won's obsession w/ each other.The movie emphasized the unrequited love/snogging/Ron & Lavender romance over the major plot line which was learning about Tom Riddle's background. With the exception of Dumbledore's first meeting w/ Tom & Tom asking about how to make Horcruxes, all of the background was left out. That's essentially three quarters of the book omitted.What was the point of not having Tonks find Harry on the train? How can you have Tonks call Remus sweetie and not explain all the drama between them and how they got together? How can you leave out Madam Rosmerta's involvement? What was the point of the burning of the Burrow scene? The ending was horrific. It was completely different than the book. So now Dumbledore is the only one who can apparate on Hogwarts grounds? Malfoy spends all this time working on this cabinet only to have the Death Eaters walk through, Bellatrix (who is not present in the book) encourage him to kill Dumbledore, Snape kills Dumbledore, and they kindly saunter off the grounds in no hurry. No battle... no fear of being caught...nothing. What was the point of the cabinet in the movie? It was completely anti-climatic and they didn't even have the funeral scene which is a must-have. The worst part ever was the very end...Harry and Hermione are talking about Dumbledore's death and going searching for horcruxes and she randomly chimes in that Ron is OK w/ Ginny and Harry. WHAT?! It was so awkward.And can someone please tell me how they are going to explain Dobby and Kreacher in the Deathly Hallows movies when they have essentially been omitted from the subsequent movies after being introduced? I honestly would like a do-over. They really need to re-shoot this movie and try again because it was bad. For the real fan, it leaves you cold and empty, with no tears for Dumbledore because you are so confused, and wondering why Yates and Co. cared about Lavender being funny more than the back story of Tom Riddle.
__label__4 Since I consider myself a dedicated Harry Potter fan, I am going to try to put this as nicely as possible...If I had never read any of the books (hey they're long I get it) I would have thought this movie was pretty cool and a step up from past films in terms of laughter and the script itself including special effects. There would have been mild confusion towards the end but as said before I would be the casual fan who wouldn't really mind.That being said, I am not what you would call a "casual fan." I along with many others had been devastated when I learned that Warner Brothers had pushed back the release date 6 months and had waited in the theatre for 3+ hours for a movie that I was anticipating to be one of my favorites in the series. In its good moments, there were little things from the book which I was happy to see on the silver screen. Ron's sudden girl-magnet status was done very well along with Slughorn's character debut. The only thing that was wrong was the title. I thought this was Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince? I did not buy a ticket to Ronald Weasley and the stories of Romance nor did I buy a ticket to Harry Potter's Friends with a touch of You-Know-Who on the side. Not only that, what happened to the plot? Where did it go? Who knows...maybe Ron will know if we ask him....How can you fear a wizard when you can't understand why he is the way that he is? What happened to that kiss between Harry and Ginny? (YIKES...oh "i can stay hidden in here too"...WHAT????)Where was Snape's big moment? Where was the drama? In addition, why oh whywould you omit critical moments and downgrade important characters to CREATE new ones that don't mean anything to take their place? Bottom line: This movie was like part 1 of 3 with no real closure, action, and not to mention storyline. Lets all keep our fingers crossed that 7 and 8 live up to what the books and their fans deserve
__label__4 Let me start by saying, I know that you have to alter and omit scenes from a novel when adapting it to the silver screen. However, it is not necessary to take a chain saw to what can easily be debated as the best book in the series. Half-Blood Prince is key to setting up the final, now two, movies and this version missed the mark. Now the major novel plot points are there, Harry learns about Voldemort's past, Draco struggles with his chosen task and Snape does kill Dumbledore but much of the set-up plot and subplots have been completely omitted. For fans out there that have read the book will get a strange feeling in their gut just a few minutes in.After the Deatheater attack on London the muggel minister is supposed to receive a late night visit. Omitted! During the time spent at the Wesley's prior to the school year there is supposed to be a blast from the past and news of an upcoming marriage. Omitted! So just minutes into the feature many of the actual fans should start to wonder if something fishy is going on. After the duration of the film all of the omissions are topped off by the big daddy of them all. There is no funeral for the deceased headmaster. How can that be? it is easily the 2nd biggest moment in seven novels, next to the climax when Voldemort is killed. Additional ommisions: Many of Dumbeldore's Voldemort memories Any of Snape's interaction as the Defense against the Dark Arts instructorProper development of the Snape Good Vs. Evil plot Quitich cup match, unless that is the match shown in the movie but you couldn't tell The alterations in the film are also a huge let down. Unfortunately our friendly writers decided that it would be wise to alter the first kiss of the future Mr. and Mrs. Potter. I cannot even wrap my head around why writers would think fans wouldn't notice. I'm not even going to get into, beyond a mention, of the two biggest changes. When the headmaster gets killed it needs to be word for word from the novel, enough said. Since they felt it necessary to not shoot the funeral I guess they felt it would be fine to end with our three heroes together instead of Harry walking off after breaking up with Ginny. Those are Huge! Now before I continue to rag on the choices of the writers I will say that HBP is visually stunning to a level above the previous films and what they did put into the script works for the film. Only those who have spent the time to read the novel will notice the major issues with this film. For entertainment value alone it was a good movie. Please to not destroy Deathly Hallows the way this edition was destroyed.
__label__4 Special effects? Good.Script? Terrible. No plot. No depth. No meaning. This film rendered Superman as a meaningless hero, a hero with no archetype. In the original film, he represented America in the Cold War. Here, he represented nothing but a Hulk.Sure, the actors were fine. Kevin Spacey was a fine choice, among others.This still does not resolve the problem that this film had no depth whatsoever. I cannot see how anyone can come away with anything meaningful from this film, when Superman was, and is, daily created to be a meaningful hero in not only comics but also in people's minds. This was a real waste of money considering how many directions this film could have taken.Just a few instances: Lex Luthor could have been a villain of global corporatism, political domination, totalitarianism, and on and on and on. He was just another goofball Hackman incarnation.And Superman? For what did he stand in this film? Nothing but another hack "savior" figure.Wait until it comes to the dollar theater if you see it at all.
__label__4 This movie sucked, overpriced vehicle for Depp....The studios keep trying to take old material and 'rejuvenate' it using FX to cover for poor script and bad acting. It is pretty much a waste of time and a lot of money. Utah locals, not Texas. Many of the Guns not invented yet. The Dialog was stilted. Impossible 'stunts'that just wouldn't have happened -The Golden Gate bridge - had not been built yet. It featured Shoddy makeup - wrong tribe. It is No wonder it failed... The radio and TV series were enjoyable and fun for the time period - this movie takes the premise and ruins it. Maybe the current 'electronic thumb generation' will like it - no one else will. Guess the box office (failure)and general disapproval proves it...and lest I forget the 50 star flag shown, the 20+ shot revolvers and the 'Native American' railroad engineer-Expert, the 'flying Silver' and best of all - the 'bad' is all blamed on the "greedy railroad" people-a Depp anti US norm...
__label__4 I was annoyed, when LOTR came out, at all the people who complained about the differences between the films and the books. In my opinion, Peter Jackson made the changes he did for excellent reasons. However, the changes made to the storyline of "Prince Caspian" were for obviously promotional reasons and they really took away from the original.The most annoying part of the film was the silly love story between too-much-eyeliner Susan (why is there eyeliner in Narnia?) and bad-accent Caspian, which was non-existent in the book. There was also the irritating part when the filmmakers decided to (almost) bring the White Witch back, which also was never in the book. It's not like Tilda Swinton won't have a chance to reprise her role; the White Witch returns in "The Magician's Nephew" for a substantial portion of the story. Then there were the parts about the battle at Miraz's castle, which never happens. The best part was the filmmakers' version of the transportation back into Narnia, which fulfilled all my expectations about how that journey began.As someone who's been reading the "Narnia" series for over twenty years, I was eager to see this film because the first one was pretty good. However, I think the filmmakers made silly choices to try and make an already-dramatic story more exciting and to draw preteens into the theatre, when they would have been better served to stay as true to the novel as the first film did.
__label__4 Having seen "The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, The Witch And The Wardrobe" six times in the theatre and purchased the DVD, I was treated to a showing of "Prince Caspian" as a birthday present on its opening night. My husband and I were both disappointed. 1. What happened to the story? Yes, many books are slow and may seem boring when translated to film, but this lacks so many of the necessary details of the original story. There are those of us who love romance, but it DOES NOT belong in this story. Yes, battle scenes are enticing to movie-goers, but when was there an attack on Miraz's castle? Dr. Cornelius does not get captured. 2. What's with the Telmarine accent? There could have been something subtle to show that the Telmarines were foreigners to Narnia, but this was ridiculous! 3. Huh? What did they say? Is it possible to speak up a bit and enunciate? I missed so much dialogue; this DID NOT happen in the first movie. 4. Yes, Edmund is more mature and honorable in this story, but Peter did not seem quite so arrogant and vicious. 5. For those who mention the White Witch, no she doesn't have much of a part and well, if person had read the book, he/she would know why. Aslan makes a point of stating why he doesn't appear as much. It seems few reviewers have read the books and know the stories.
__label__4 Here's a franchise that definitely needs to be put to bed and fast. Directed by Rob Marshall, "Pirates of the Caribbean, On Stranger Tides" is mostly a bore and more rehash and retread than anything else. Depp and Rush are back at it as their characters, but the characters themselves have completely worn out their welcome. The story is over-long, and has a couple of fairly interesting sequences - one being Depp's initial escape from the King of England, and two a Mermaid "battle", but these last only a scant 20 min of the bloated 130 min runtime. I fast-forwarded through a good chunk of this movie. You'd think they'd figure it out that a movie needs a lot more than a new character and quest for it to be worth your viewing time. Give it a miss.
__label__4 I was looking forward to this film since the first one was great and the second one was OK...but this one was really boring for me. The script was slow and felt cobbled together. The movie started out pretty good but there were some moments where it really dragged and it just felt like it went nowhere. With all the good movies out there I was disappointed that I wasted my money on this one. Not even a good movie rental. They relied too much on their old jokes and didn't really offer anything new. This felt like a film where I studio was desperate for a "safe" blockbuster hit and so dug this off a dusty shelf and did a sequel. Poor script, bad pacing, nothing original to offer. Just watch the first one over or see a different movie, all together, rather than waste your time on this disappointment.
__label__4 A couple of years ago, when I heard Peter Jackson would direct two more Middle-earth movies, I started crying out of excitement. Those two movies soon got changed into three and I was angry because I was convinced the story was too short for three three-hours-long movies. Despite the book being approximately 300 pages long, Peter Jackson & co. proved me wrong and managed to not include big parts of the books in these movies, even though there's more than 8,5 hours of total screen time. "Disappointed" is an understatement.I don't think this movie was supposed to make me laugh at the serious scenes and sigh at the 'comic relief' scenes -basically everything Alfrid was in- but sadly it did. At least the 'funny' scenes in the Lord of the Rings trilogy were subtle and less in number; BOTFA was supposed to be "serious and dark" and those silly, ridiculous scenes pretty much ruined that.I have nothing negative to say about the acting though. The amazing cast of this trilogy did the best they could with the awful script they were given, and I'm thankful for that. It's not their fault that their character development was rushed because the movie was full of pointless Legolas Vs. Gravity scenes, dull Tauriel scenes who fell in love with Kili after having a conversation with him once or twice - same goes for Kili who fell in love with her and even gave her the token his mother, Dís, gave him.The worst part of this movie isn't even that it's full of badly done CGI or the big lack of proper character development. It's the fact that Tauriel, a badly written, impossible character made up by Peter Jackson & co., had more screen time than characters who were in the actual book written by J.R.R. Tolkien. Beorn basically got fifteen seconds, if not less, screen time in the last installment of this trilogy. Most of the dwarfs from the Company barely got a line, and a LOT of things are left unexplained.SPOILERS AFTER THIS LINEFor instance, what happened with Thranduil and the white gems? Did he ever get them back? What happened to the gold? As a fan of the books I already know the answer, but the movie didn't really care to explain this important part of the story. Come on, the entire battle was about the gold. At least take a minute to explain how it got divided. Where did those goats suddenly come from?Why were the dwarfs wearing helmets when they were still inside the mountain, but had no helmets on when they actually went to war? What happened to the people of Lake-Town? Why didn't the movie explain that Bard became King of Dale? If I had not read the book, I'd get really annoyed after watching this movie and not knowing what had happened to them.What was the point of those ridiculously large worms and why did no one else /ever/ mention them before? And why were they gone after ten seconds? Did they ever get killed?Why mention Legolas' mother and never explain anything about her at all?Besides all these unanswered questions, there are certain things which bothered me more than all of those questions combined. 1. The Durins (Thorin, Kili, Fili) didn't get a funeral. In my opinion it's ridiculous to cut something like that out because they were basically the main characters. Which brings me to my second point. 2. I think Peter Jackson forgot that this story is called The Hobbit because Bilbo is supposed to be the main character, not Thorin. 3. Kili basically sacrificed himself for Tauriel which is unforgivable. In the actual story, Fili and Kili died defending Thorin in battle. Now the poor boy is dead because he had a crush on a badly written elf which also completely degrades the importance of Legolas and Gimli's friendship. Let's not forget about the scene wherein Legolas grabs a flying bat, or when Bard uses his son Bain to shoot an arrow, which should make him fall but somehow it doesn't, or when Dain and Thorin decide to hug in the middle of a battle, or when Azog somehow manages to float and dramatically opens his eyes. I absolutely loved the Lord of the Rings trilogy. They are my favorite movies of all time and the reason I became a fan of Tolkien's works in the first place. It's sad that Peter Jackson desperately tried to link the Hobbit movies to the LOTR trilogy, because it's partly the reason why the Hobbit movies are so awful. If the unnecessary Dol Guldur scenes and the Tauriel storyline were skipped, every good part from the book which is now cut out would have easily fit in. I'm still giving this movie a 4 out of 10 though, because I absolutely love the cast and I think they did a brilliant job, especially Richard Armitage and Martin Freeman. Also, the very last scene was exactly like I imagined it would be, with Ian Holm's Bilbo and Gandalf knocking on the door. Loved that part. And "The Last Goodbye" by Billy Boyd was a beautiful way to end this movie and trilogy and made me tear up.You might enjoy this movie if you really liked the first two -I didn't-, if you're into bad CGI or movies that look like video games or if you don't really care about Tolkien's Middle-earth and are content with a movie that doesn't do Tolkien and his characters justice at all. Otherwise you're probably someone like me and you'll leave the theater disappointed and grieving over the characters you love so much.
__label__4 Ridley and Tony Scott and I grew up watching the same sort of dual feature movie down the local flea pit - only his was in Hartlepool and mine was in Cardiff. There was a genre that was set in medieval or Arthurian England where a secondary leading US actor like Robert Taylor or Alan Ladd came across to Britain to lead up a cast of local thesps like Robert Morley or Guy Rolfe or Michael Rennie, which were fairly successful - the best by far being 'Ivanhoe' which had a gorgeous young Elizabeth Taylor being burnt at the stake! This 'Robin Hood' is an expensive remake. The reason, I say that, is that they always had some plot about the lead role finding out his father was some great liberal lord or peasant who fell out with the establishment! Unfortunately this film is top heavy with superfluous plot, and the real identity of Robin Longstride (Russell Crowe) takes ages to come to fruition. Yes, Robin's father wrote the document before Magna Carta, being a sort of illiterate medieval version of Tom Paine and Thomas Jefferson - really!? The plot becomes so convoluted that Mark Strong is some sort of Benedict Arnold figure (got to make it comprehensible to US audiences), King John is a mad spoilt brat, and Marian a sword wielding warrior queen aka Xena (cue the joke when you first see her bending a long bow - a feat few men could achieve!), while the totally wasted Sheriff of Nottingham (Matthew McFadyean) takes the humorous relief award with the best line about his mother! A historical mish mash then with stock characters and plots from every source imaginable (plus plenty of slomo), eg the opening looks like a colour remake of 'Lord of the Flies!' and pre-final battle looks like Wendy leading the Lost Boys into action! The acting is okay, but mostly one note. The script soon to be seen in court with Steven Spielberg suing for plagiarism - would you believe that the French invaders come ashore in WW2 landing craft with scenes of dead bodies, arrows whizzing and blood shot underwater!? Knowing where the final battle was shot at Freshwater Bay, I shall be going to look soon for those CGI cliffs! And, by the end, if you are wondering how Robin becomes an outlaw, then don't blink, it all happens ludicrously in about 120 seconds flat! Four for brio and cheek and lots of action, but what a load of old blarney, sorry, horse manure!
__label__4 Let's get a couple things out of the way: Robin Hood is not real, he is a legendary character and is, for all intents and purposes, wholly fictitious, yet set in 12th century England. Since the whole story is made-up, you can make the villains anyone you want, set it in any year you want, and have the plot go pretty much anywhere you feel like. That being said, the story of Robin Hood is so iconic that messing with any of the following will severely hurt the feel of the story: robs from the rich and gives to the poor, Sherwood Forest, Maid Marion, The Merry Men, Friar Tuck, Prince/King John, The Sheriff of Nottingham, archery, England, and King Richard. You can get by with a few tweaks here and there, combining villains, offing King Richard, and minor characters eliminated/added, but if you eliminate everything but the names you end up with the dreadful film directed by Ridley Scott.The movie really boils down to: Robin Hood comes back to England after the death of King Richard as he was returning from the third crusade and finds English traitors working with the French to destabilize and invade England. Robin helps lead an army to combat the invaders and saves England, then is branded an outlaw and slips away into the forest as the screen fades to "So the legend begins" and the credits roll.So what went wrong? In a nutshell, everything except the kitchen sink (and only because indoor plumbing hadn't been invented yet). Russell Crowe could have been a cadaver in chain mail and been more interesting and exciting. In this film Robin Hood has been stripped of everything that made the character worthy of legend. There are no merry men, Sherwood Forest is a footnote, The Sheriff of Nottingham is more like a prop than a character, King Richard is dead, Friar Tuck is a twit, the romance with Maid Marion is mostly left to your imagination, the villains keep waffling on their villainy, and robbing from the rich to give to the poor is still in the planning stage; all because the movie is a prequel that is set before Robin Hood became a legendary folk hero. Why on God's green earth would you want to take such a legendary story and turn it into a "before they were famous" piece. Nobody cares what Robin Hood did before he became the legendary outlaw because it's interminably boring, as this film clearly shows.Most of the characters are woefully underdeveloped and appear in the film only because they are "supposed" to be there. The action sequences aren't impressive in any way but they did make me wonder exactly when a peasant archer (Robin Hood) came across the skills of horseback riding, swordsmanship, and mounted combat. To be fair, all the other peasant archers had horses too, so why not I suppose? The battle sequences were less than spectacular and held precisely zero suspense. I noted English casualties were next to nothing during the final climactic encounter with the invading French army, so I guess there was a little suspense because I was wondering if any English soldiers would get killed at all.
__label__4 I saw the movie in 2D because I hated the 3D HFR in the first Hobbit movie. I thought the HFR just made the movie sets look like sets instead of being part of the movie universe. I much preferred the 2D experience here and it was easier for me to try to immerse myself in the movie. Regrettably there were too many things that were wrong with the movie for me to achieve that. This movie had a budget of something like 200 million dollars, over double that of any of the individual movies of the original trilogy. Where did all that money go? To that mostly horrid CGI? There was just bloody too much of it like in the first movie. Everything looks so damn fake with the CGI slammed front and center with no artistic attempt to hide its shortcomings. For example, when Legolas starts chasing Bolg out of Laketown, even his horse is made with CGI. Why? Couldn't you afford to rent one horse? The orcs were mostly made with CGI and they weren't menacing in the slightest. The few scenes with actual actors with makeup playing the orcs were far superior. Erebor looked quite good in general with its mountains of coins and treasures but the melted gold looked unbelievably bad. Many of the actual sets in the movie were very well done and I'm really puzzled why they didn't use them more. The CGI in LOTR looked far more convincing and epic, the large establishing shots looked like grand paintings come alive. What happened here? I don't get it. It felt like I was watching a video game and I don't want to feel that way when I'm watching a movie. Granted, the original trilogy did have a bit of silly looking CGI here and there but at least it was constantly grounded by real sets. There was also some really weird editing here too. The movie is already way too long and they still include absolutely pointless scenes. For example, when Gandalf is climbing the stairs by the mountain and the ledge gives up, the movie suddenly cuts to a sweeping shot of the mountain side. Why not just stay with Gandalf, it would provide more intensity. There's many examples like this. In Mirkwood when Bilbo is snapping at the spider web they shouldn't zoom deep into the web with the camera. Stuff like this tells nothing and adds nothing to the film. This also takes time away from the character development. When one of the dwarfs oversleeps and misses the boat to Erebor, I couldn't even remember who he was and why I should care that he was stranded in Laketown. Also, the most puzzling and distracting choice in the movie was using that weird POV camera footage in the barrel scenes, it looked so utterly different that it took me out of the movie completely. The action could've been cut down significantly too. There was no real context or meaning for most of it anyway. Also, after Legolas has killed his umpteenth orc in yet another physics-breaking and miraculous way, you simply lose interest. He can apparently do anything. My feeling is that in the original trilogy the "laws of physics" so to say were merely bent somewhat, here they're completely shattered. All of this may sound nitpicky but I'm essentially doing this because the movie didn't get me emotionally invested in it in a positive way at all.The movie wasn't particularly funny either despite its lighthearted source material, I laughed much more heartily in many parts of the original trilogy. The Gimli joke was quite funny though. There was also absolutely no memorable music in this movie and none of it moved me like much of the music did in the original trilogy. I didn't get shivers at any point of the movie.It wasn't all bad or mediocre though. Smaug was magnificent and Benedict Cumberbatch did a great job voice acting the dragon, definitely something to witness in a theater. Smaug's discussions with Bilbo were also great. Gandalf's venture into Dol Guldur was also interesting though that is mainly because Ian McKellen is such a fine actor that he can catch your attention with ease. The cameos by Peter Jackson in the beginning eating the carrot and by Stephen Colbert as the Laketown spy were fun even though I think they might've been too distracting had I loved the movie. The pacing in the movie is a bit of a mixed bag. The first movie had bad pacing because it was overly long without anything really happening. Desolation of Smaug swings the pendulum to the other end with endless action sequences pasted after another. Sure it's more exciting to watch but it was dearly missing some slower sequences to digest everything. I'm a massive fan of the original trilogy but the first two Hobbit movies simply haven't captured the epicness and magic of those movies at all. And if the Hobbit wasn't intended to feel epic, then why make it into three movies? There's also something else I don't get. The original movie trilogy adaptation established what the LOTR universe looked and felt like. Is the Hobbit trilogy still supposed to happen in that same universe? I didn't ever feel like anyone was in any serious danger because they survive crazier and crazier encounters after the next and because of that there's no tension. This wasn't the case with the originals. Huge spiders were very dangerous in LOTR, here Bilbo is just killing them off left and right. I just wish they'd taken much more liberties with the material and really placed this story into the grittier universe that was established by the original trilogy. Or maybe they should've done something completely different instead of trying to imitate the originals and coming short of them. Anything but this.
__label__4 I grew up reading and rereading and loving the Hobbit and the Lord of the Rings. I enjoyed Jackson's Trilogy but I think the Hobbit has suffered greatly in the translation from book to screen.The Desolation of Smaug is almost unrecognizable as part of the Hobbit - the love story between the dwarf and the wood elf, the bizarre rewriting of the escape from the wood elf stronghold, the battle between the handful of dwarfs and Smaug in the mountain in which the dwarfs nearly get the better of Smaug (!!!) are just some of the egregious examples of poetic license taken by Jackson.To add insult to injury it is only part II of III. You've got to be kidding!!! The Hobbit is all of about 300 pages versus nearly 1500 pages for the Trilogy. This is simply gross money-mongering at the expense of the audiences. Sorry, I love Tolkien's The Hobbit just not The Hobbit Movie. Old JRR must be rolling over in his grave.
__label__4 I was so extremely excited for this movie, I had just read the books and truly could not wait to see how it translated to the screen having such a vivid and vibrant plot. My excitement was short lived however when this butchered movie began to roll. The largest flaw was that of character development. The whole beginning of the book truly creates Lyras character and her supporting characters such as Roger, Lord Asriel, Master of Jordan, and so forth; this instead was replaced with a few minutes of monologue, and if you happened to sneeze you would miss the explanation of daemons (which is integral to the plot) they could have included the catacomb exploration to explain that but alas they clipped that as well. And what about Lord Asriels visit, why change who tried to poison him? and what happened to the trepanned head of Stanislaus Grumman? This was a powerful scene in the book, but it became a 2 minute meeting on screen. Also, I don't know about you but I pictured Lord Asriel as this big powerful looking man that commanded a room, not quite Daniel Craig.So she leaves with Mrs. Coulter and again a rushed relationship which never develops as it does in the book. No visit to the Royal Artic Institute, no fitting for arctic clothing, where did it all go; and then the escape, which was perfect in the book, became a very short scene that was completely different.The Gyptians. This was a HUGE part of the book, especially her relationships with them, all of it was axed. Once she arrives at the Gyptian city there is a ton of character development between Lyra and John Faa, Farder Coram, Ma Costa; none of this was included, in fact what took weeks in the book was dwindled down to a short conversation immediately upon Lyras arrival. What happened to finding out that Ma Costa nursed her as a child? or finding out from John Faa that Lord Asriel and Mrs. Coulter were her parents, and why she ended up at Jordan College? We leave this part in the movie not knowing why the Gyptians want to help, why they agree to take her along, no town vote or attack plan, in the book she is taken under Farder Corams wing for weeks.From here it is a rush job to a cut off ending. Her relationship with Iorek is cut, she all of a sudden has a strong relationship with him? The boy who was "cut" was not Billy Costa, why change that, and the boy ends up dying. The Samoyans bring her to Bolvangar and all the events leading to her escape were cut out. The movie brings us to the Ice Bears directly and although things were cut the bear fight was done pretty well, but there was no build up so it was not as intense as it should have been, no pinnacle. Even Ioreks background was changed, he was outcast for killing another bear. The final fight scene after the children's escape was also anticlimactic due to the lack of build up and tension, you almost didn't care.Now I understand they were making way for the next movie, but cutting out the entire ending??? The movie left you with nothing resolved, Lord Asriel was in it for 2 minutes. I only hope Philip Pullman does not sell his soul on "The Subtle Knife" because he was royally abused on this one.
__label__4 I have not read the book so I can't comment on how close the movie follows it. However, as a movie, it is so poorly edited to be barely comprehensible. The whole movie seems like every other scene has been cut out. Characters and situations are not explained, relationships are not developed, and the plot is left with gaping holes. Fans of the book will, no doubt, be able to fill in the details. For the rest of us, I would not bother. This is a shame because the acting is good and well-cast. The special effects are equally impressive. If the movie had lasted another hour, it probably would have been terrific. Hopefully, a director's cut will be released some day that redeems this travesty.
__label__4 All the elements of a 10 star movie are obviously prevalent here, but they don't all get put into play.I don't understand why New Line advertised this as the "next Lord Of The Rings epic", when they gave that movie close to three hours of film time and this only two! (?) Another half hour at least of this movie would have done it more justice, because it felt extremely rushed. It seemed like they were throwing information out at you too quick to fully grasp, and never letting the cast just immerse themselves in it.The music here was nothing short of ordinary. I don't remember a single song from the movie save the "gyption theme". I honestly think the music could have been 100 times better, and bring more immersion in.However, I believed the cast was great. It is truly great that Lyra, portrayed by Dakota Blue Richards, now has a face. They picked someone with the look and talent to really shine. Lord Asriel, portrayed by Daniel Craig and Ms. Coulter, portrayed by Nicole Kidman were played fantastically. Although Daniel Craig fans will be disappointed. He only has a 15 minute cameo. Lee Scoresby, portrayed by Sam Elliot, was great. It seems they intended him for a bit of comic relief, but I just had hoped they gave him more time to show it off due to the non-stop drama sequences.The scenery was amazing, and very believable. The daemons, magic, witches, are all very well done and very beautiful.I see this movie as a financial failure. You have to look at this from a critical view, the "new comers". The people the movie is trying to grab. I brought ten people to the advanced screening December 1st, four of which had read the books (myself included). They (and myself) had said that the plot was too rushed. The six that had not read them either said it was too confusing and ending up requiring explanations, or said it was too boring because they didn't take the time to flesh out the characters. Coincidentally, one of them got too frustrated with it and bored and walked out.Fanaticly, I really like this movie (but it is real rushed), however I tried looking at this movie with a newcomer view. Reality wise, people walking in who aren't loyal fanatics are probably going to be very disappointed. Unfortunately, the list of "loyal fanatics" isn't going to be enough to make this movie a success. At any rate, this is definitely no Lord Of The Rings... It's just another flick to watch on a rainy afternoon.
__label__4 The WINTER SOLDIER is the best MCU film, but its sequel has a serious identity crisis. Captain America: Civil War wants to be great. But for the most part it isn't. The film is an overstuffed 2 and half hour film that has one too many ideas thrown into the mix. It is essential a cash grab of the BVS variety. But why can't people see this? Now this is a Captain America as the title suggests. But in the end a more fitting title would read: Bucky VS Ironman: Dawn of who's the Captain's Bestie. The reason I say this is the film felt disjointed to the point of it being a joke. It felt like two separate films weaved together to try and make a film that makes sense. But it didn't It's one half a Captain flick/ the other half a mini Avengers film. But they both drown each other. It's clear this is a film Marvel wanted to make, but why on earth rush into it? One film could never service this iconic plot line. It should have been gradual, and while we did see Cap and Tony tense up in Ultron, this is where a strain in their relationship should have been definite and it should have still been in effect at the beginning of this film.For the most part of the Airport sequence there was no real danger. It was a carefully orchestrated scene that showed these films are for young cinema-goers. Even when one character is looked to be written off "BAM" they are back, giving everyone some cheep laughs at the end of the film. Now from a writing and filmmaking point of view and dare I say it, this film has worse interconnecting scenes then The Amazing Spiderman 2. Re-shoots are obvious, editing is sub par, cinematography lacked style and was evident to be a "quick" point-and-shoot at the action affair. Such a disappointment. But yes this film has it's fun moments (the same can not be said for BVS). But they can't help a film tailored to a certain demographic that leaves out those looking for a film that doesn't kill a few braincell upon leaving the cinema. The laughs are hardly inspirational writing and forced, so forced.sidetone: ONLY SOME OF THEM HAVE SUPER POWERS, SO WHY DO THEY ALL RECOVER FROM HARD HITS AND KNOCKS? it's just makes the stakes so much lower and less respectable.
__label__4 The characters: Mostly douches with bad lines.The story: Aliens invade, their ships are clumsy and weird and jump on water. America (and to a lesser, lesser extent Japan saves the world). There are moments when you wish you could unsee the tacky ways they (the movie makers) try to make heroes and bad-asses of certain people. Most notably the old sailors on the USS Missouri which are posed (yes, really posed!) everywhere, high and low in an awkward way that just makes you wanna squirm and throw up a little bit. The aliens: At first you think: "This alien race seems really noble." Second thought: "I hope the aliens win, I hate the characters in this movie so much!" Third thought: "Huh, so the aliens aren't noble, they're just stupid. And they seem a bit evil according to the unoriginal flashback John Carter got but... I'm still rooting for the aliens! Go aliens, exterminate this movie-verse!!"The sum: Why did I watch this movie with awkward characters, unlikable at best. Silly plot with horribly pushed tie-ins to the battleship game. Plain dumb aliens. In-your-face product placement (Cola Zero, LG, Subway and probably some more). Why? I was really, really bored. And now I've lost faith in Hollywood movie making. It's not better then Transformers, It's just as bad.If your over 10 years old: Don't watch this. If you 10 or younger: Don't watch this.Hollywood needs to learn that they can't push this crap from the toilet to the big screen anymore!
__label__4 No one was expecting Hollywood would so be s*** out of ideas and turn a board game into a movie but in the end we have BATTLESHIP, a movie based on the classic board game involving taking down your enemy's entire fleet through luck and grid reference. But this one has aliens which were strangely absent in the original source material.Ridiculous as it sounds on paper, BATTLESHIP was made and here we have a passable summer time killer.The special effects in the movie are impressive; I watched a regular screening so I can't say much for the 3D. The combat between Earth's naval ships and the alien machines was done well though it wasn't as tense as one could hope for. They're just nice to LOOK at; there's no sense of urgency or dread when the guns are loaded or when the enemy ships arm their missiles. The editing in the action scenes was a bit choppy but thankfully this does little to hinder the fact that they're nice to look at.The movie wasn't advertised as having a thought provoking story or anything serious; the crew behind the movie knew that they made it to be nothing more than a popcorn movie that doesn't take itself seriously which is why unlike CLASH OF THE TITANS the special effects don't seem to be a hindrance to the simple story. Though I just wish someone took the time to improve the alien design which looked like it was cheaply ripped off from a video game.But the story itself isn't even worth mentioning; sure, it's a simple alien invasion but that's about all it is, there's nothing more to it. There's no character development, it's extremely predictable and it seems amateurish. There were some good laughs here and there and bits of what could've been character development but never are they expanded. Even for a simple alien invasion movie the dialogue the characters said seemed forced; never do they connect to the audience in some way so when someone goes down or when someone's in danger, you don't feel anything. The writers tried to make things sound more intelligent than they have to and look at the end result; you have a bunch of flat characters spouting unnecessary profound crap. The script is just bad; it looks like it was written by a kid who thought that the "cool stuff" (video game looking aliens, cheesy dialogue meant to sound deep, witty one-liners, etc.) should be added into the movie and that's why those were there. Cheap and cheesy dialogue makes the already flat cast of characters even more uninteresting; try not to groan while watching any of the "romantic" scenes or the obligatory patriotic scenes as seen in any movie made involving the military. I'll admit, I was expecting BATTLESHIP to be total crap but I'm slightly thankful it didn't turn out to be the complete waste of money and time I was expecting but that isn't saying much. All the movie turned out to be was a popcorn movie that couldn't even entertain me all through out its run time. In the end, BATTLESHIP is a corny and clichéd movie (to describe it this way is being lenient) that relies on action sequences to draw in an audience. This movie didn't really feel like an alien invasion summer flick, it felt more like a 90 minute ad for a board game.
__label__4 There were so many problems with the film that I felt let down. I feel that Casino Royale was the best film to date; Skyfall was just a disappointment.The first 10 minutes or so were great, Bond's on a mission and there are some memorable scenes (digger coupling the trains), but there are major plot-holes. When Bond is fighting on top of the train for the hard- drive, Eve says that she has a shot. Bond can hear the whole conversation between Eve and M, so why doesn't he get out of the way (or at least co-operate to provide an easy shot)?! M mentions that the choice was either possible success (taking the shot) or guaranteed failure (leaving Bond to fight). You'd have more chance with a TOP MI6 AGENT than a risky shot.I must be missing something, because QOS shows Bond finishing his FIRST assignment, where Skyfall shows him to be old, out of shape, and at the end of his career; there's a MASSIVE gap between the two films. It's almost as if the last two films and the reboot have been ignored.The Aston Martin from Goldfinger, Q's mentioning of the exploding pen (Goldeneye), and the appearance of Q (In the previous two films, Bond has not met Q) seem to make it clear that CR and QOS have been forgotten, and so Skyfall was used purely for a "50 year special", looking back at the previous bonds.When Bond leaves a trail leading to his house, why on earth wouldn't he call back up to meet him there? If you have the Head of MI6 under protection, you would need some actual protection - the plot makes no sense!Why did Silva want to get captured? He just escapes! If he wanted to kill M, he could have done that with the explosion in her office (with a delay), so what purpose did his capture possess? None!Overall, I was disappointment with Skyfall; possibly the worst Bond film to date. I expect more from Bond, and I hope that the next film forgets Skyfall!
__label__4 I thought Skyfall was awful. Worst of all it was just boring, something I would never think I would say about any Bond film.The movie starts off well enough, a good chase scene in an exotic location and it sets itself up for what could have been a good story. The trouble is after the first 15 mins the story seems to go nowhere.MI6 is in trouble, a list of its agents goes missing and has to be recovered. Bond who everyone thought was dead comes back to save the day. All good so far. Now for some very thin reason Bond has to go to Shanghai. I wonder if this scene was added to boost box office figures in China because it was totally irrelevant to the story. Next scene Bond meets the 'baddie'. Not some master criminal but an ex MI6 agent out for some revenge. This plot had already been covered in Goldeneye with much better results. The Baddie looked more likely to Blow Bond than Blow up MI6 and there was even a joke along that line.The story now moves to London. I applaud the decision to have a Bond movie in the UK, especially in the Jubilee/Olympic/50 year Bond year but frankly it just painted England like every foreigners stereotype. Cold, Wet, and miserable. Now it is about a plot to kill M, this has also been covered before in 'The World is not Enough' and the movie never returns to locating the missing list of agents.Why didn't the bad guy just kill M at the beginning of the movie and spare me sitting through 2 hours of boredom? I gave this film 4/10 because it has an unexpected twist at the end that the production team have managed not to leek prior to release. If it were not for that then Id probably have given it only 3/10.Craig is now showing his age and in my opinion there are many better suited actors to the part. People moaned about QOS but frankly this movie is the worst Bond film ever.
__label__4 Iron Man 3 is, for me at least, one big letdown. It is not a bad movie but it certainly is not what you'd expect after The Avengers. Robert Downey's charismatic take on the character was the big reason of the success of the previous movies in the franchise and he still hasn't lost his charm. He delivers his lines as witty as he can but at one moment the jokes become one too many. The movie derails from what it should be and becomes a comedy. And not in the good way. Most of the jokes are out of place in moments which should be dramatic and thus the scenes cannot be taken seriously.Ben Kingsley is great but the weak script doesn't do any good to the main villain. And a superhero movie needs a good villain which Iron Man 3 hasn't.Don Cheadle's character is mismanaged and doesn't contribute to the plot or the movie in any way.One of the good things in Iron Man 3 is Tony and Pepper's relationship which is handled really well and the chemistry between the actors reflects on the screen.The ending is forced in a way but after all the film ends on a high note. It certainly could have been better but given as it is Iron Man 3 is a good continuation to the story of Tony Stark that leaves you with wanting more and we all know at some point Robert Downey we put on the suit again and maybe we'll get a movie on the level of the original.
__label__4 I would have gone into detail and actually clicked on spoiler but there is no need. Looks like at least 100 people did that already tonight. So I am just going to hit the high notes and the low notes and call it a night. The good It was an OK movie. Not great, not good. but I got to see explosions and hear one liners. Pretty good acting by the major players. Kingsly particularly was great with what they gave him. Stay for the ending credits for a small laughThe badThis script sucks They completely retcon'd a major villain and a major organization. Screwing them up for any future marvel movie. Seriously screwed the pooch on that. This was a Tony Stark story, not an Iron Man Story It appears that Tony must have got some shield training because now the rich guy that only knows how to blast people and tackle people acts more like a cross between Macguyver and Hawkeye then Iron Man.They screw up several major plot points from the first two movies such as why Tony has a superconductor in his chest to begin with and the weapon systems war-machine uses.Finally, Where the hell is Nick Fury. Iron man does not need to have Nick Fury in his movies. Except when that movie basically deals with domestic terrorism on a massive front. If you see this movie you will see a part specifically where iron man calls out a major bad guy in the press and says bring it on I will be here. In the marvel universe there is no way in hell something that public would not have shield all over it. Especially since Tony Stark basically builds their cool stuff.
__label__4 First of all, I would like to say that I have been an IMDb user for 4 years and 4 months now and this is going to be my first movie review, which makes me kind of sad because it is not going to be a very positive one. This movie starts off with a very good promise, a promise also given to us in the trailer. It was supposed to introduce Iron Man's toughest villain 'The Mandarin', show us the state our world was left in after the events in 'The Avengers' and develop the Iron Man characters, that we've come to love so very much, even further. Instead Shane Black and Drew Pierce decided to make a ridicule of the true Mandarin character from the comic book and gave us an uninteresting villain, almost altogether ignored the consequences of the Avengers movie (that should be an important issue at this point) except for some hinted psychological issues Tony has, that weren't developed at all just like all of the side characters that seemed to exist just because they were there in the prequels. But the biggest issue were the so obvious plot holes that defy all the logic set up by the prequels and 'The Avengers' which leads me to believe that the writer/director Shane Black and co-writer Drew Pierce didn't even see the afore mentioned movies before writing the script for 'Iron Man 3'. How can these 'enemies' melt the Iron man suit if Thor couldn't even scratch it with lightning which achieves much higher temperatures; how can the same people rip off parts of the Iron man suit if Thor barely dented it with his mighty hammer 'Mjolnir', ergo Thor is just a giant pus***; if it was so easy for Tony Stark to remove the shards from his blood stream why didn't he do it in the second Iron man movie when he was facing immediate and painful death from the exposure to palladium radiation, and so on...As far as the acting goes, it was good but nothing spectacular. The script wasn't very good. There were some funny one liners but by the end of the movie there were so many of them it just left a bad taste. The action and the special effects were fine but didn't serve much purpose since the storyline was so illogical and uninteresting. So in conclusion, this movie would be good if it were a stand alone SF movie, but since it is connected to all the marvel universe movies that came before it it simply isn't. It would seem that Shane Black and his crew couldn't find a way to deliver the promise given to us by the creators of the afore mentioned marvel films.So if you must see this movie wait for the blue-ray because in my opinion it isn't worth the price of admission.I give it a 4 out of 10 stars only out of respect for such great actors as Robert Downey Jr., Guy Pearce, Don Cheadle, Ben Kingsley and so on, which could have made it such a great movie with the right script in hand and the right director in the coaching seat.
__label__4 Alice Kingsley (Mia Wasikowska) is, unbeknownst to her, on her way to her engagement party. Turns out this is the famous Alice who 13 years earlier ventured in to Wonderland. Surely there is a creative reason to pull her back into the zany world. Nope, she merely felt the urge to chase a rabbit who himself was seeking to fulfill a prophecy. And so, Alice in roped back into the world of fantasy/absurdity.If you've seen anything at all on this movie, then the strengths are obvious. It's Disney, it's CGI loaded, it's in 3D. Everything visual is well appointed with lavish detail. It makes me wonder if director Tim Burton is better suited as a set designer since he is always given projects for his vision. I recall a time where his vision wasn't hampered by the concepts of others, at time when his films were so wholly original that nothing else compared, and sadly he's been stuck in a limbo of "revisions" for a decade.For a girl who can't remember anything, Alice is never surprised. She sees giant creatures, she shrinks, flies on a hat, all without a yelp. The first person to blame would be Burton, since Wasikowska lacks leading experience. Still I wonder what's going through her head when she decided to play Alice as oppressively jaded. Outside the last ten minutes, she's the antithesis of Dorothy. Having a protagonist who's so down trodden in a beautiful world is counterintuitive.Johnny Depp. You pay the man and he'll do his thing. I can't tell you that his character, The Mad Hatter, is an original. I'm sure it's a combination of other Depp figurines. With the Hatter he has carte blanche to do anything, anything at all, and somehow be considered in character. It doesn't matter that he's periodically possessed by a Scotsman—he's in character and he's Johnny Depp so it must be fantastic, right? More amusing are Helena Bonham Carter and Crispin Glover, the latter of whom you wouldn't recognize.The White Queen (Anne Hathaway) was in position to be the most complex element of the film. I suppose her role is to assume power in the event that her sister is dethroned. For a character who talks a big game of peace, she sure does mix together an abhorrent potion to return Alice to normal size. Despite repeatedly saying she represents good, I didn't see any evidence. Toes would have been crushed I'm sure, but the vibe from Anne's portrayal suggested that she wanted to be the calculating nemesis.I can't tell you how stupid this movie made me feel. For some reason it figured a major plot point would be found in determining the identity of Alice. If you are seated in the theatre watching a film called Alice in Wonderland you will not be surprised to find that the lead character of Alice is indeed the very same mentioned in the title. Why we spend most of the film getting to this conclusion feels like an attempt to recreate Hook. By the end you realize that Alice is the problem with Wonderland. In the 13 years she's been gone, her friends seem to be in good health despite the Red Queen reigning over the land. Why are they looking for her now? The Red Queen was in power this whole time and they seem to be in good shape, but when Alice gets there the queen challenges them. I suppose she's just as upset to have such a lifeless young girl in her land. I for one am disenchanted.
__label__4 I was able to catch a prescreening of Alice in Wonderland tonight on March 2nd. Despite some pretty nifty visuals, and jaw dropping set pieces, I found the movie to be incredibly dull, flat, and utterly full of itself. The film is merely a vehicle for Johnny Depp to showcase his talents, and he portrays the Mad Hatter as an actor who can't quite find the right shoes to fill in the role. He rotates from a Scottish brogue, to a feminine lisp, and staggers once in awhile as the unmistakable character of Captain Jack Sparrow. Where the visuals triumph, the story lacks. The proposed 'sequel' to Alice in Wonderland is literally a rehash of most of the finer points of the original, except a lot more Johnny Depp- a character who the audience is supposed to sympathize with and root for, but who i found a bit annoying and tiresome after awhile. The plot is fairly simple. Alice (the stone faced, newcomer Mia Wasisoska whose acting is limited to mildly concerned, mildly puzzled, and mildly agitated) flees from an arranged marriage proposal from a wealthy lord. She follows a curious white rabbit and tumbles down a hole into Underland, referred to as Wonderland by Alice. She then meets a variety of odd characters, most of them familiar from the original Alice. The plot is fairly simplistic, and a tad boneheaded. The Red Queen (Bonham Carter, slightly overdoing it, but arguably the best actor of the bunch) rules the land, but is pitted against the tiresome goodness and light of her sister, The White Queen (Hathaway doing an air-headed imitation of, you guessed it, Captain Jack Sparrow). Alice is destined by some ancient scroll to defeat the Jabberwocky and end The Red Queen's reign of terror. Alice boils down to mere eye candy-something that is visually pleasing, but is only a piece of fluff. If your a fan of Burton's Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, this movie is right up your ally. I prefer Burton at his best with movies that attempt to involve the audience like Edward Scissorhands, Ed Wood, and Big Fish. However, this bloated mess is sure to rank in hundreds of millions of dollars, but it tugs at our wallets rather than our hearts. It's a scary thought, but I hope that Burton's best work isn't behind him. 4/10
__label__4 Before getting into any details as to why I left the cinema with confusion and disappointment, I want to start with what I perceive as the best argument why this movie sucks: I saw it at an Sunday afternoon screening, so the cinema was filled with kids at all ages, accompanied by their parents. And during the whole length of the film, I didn't hear a single child laugh or giggle. I didn't laugh myself either, for that matter, but how bad must a children's movie really be if it completely misses its target audience? I mean, it's not like kids have that high standards.And I would have never believed that I would hold this against a film, but WHY did they feel the urge to suffocate this wonderful piece of fiction under this concrete-like "story" whose pseudo-Christian undertones were lifted straight from the Chronicles of Narnia? Why must sweet little Alice become a soldier and killer for the suppressed inhabitants of Wonderland? Why must every character get a "real" name, every piece of magic (like the "eat me"-cookies) be explained with alchemy, every place get a name and a location that is reachable by just... walking there. Any coherent narrative demands logic - but this logic contradicts everything that Wonderland used to be about.I have read the source material numerous times (both translated and in its original form), and again and again I was fascinated by its surreal magic, its emphasis on twisted anti-logic (Lewis Carroll aka Charles Dodgson used to be professor for mathematic and a dean in the local church, so he used the books as both an outlet for his more crazy thoughts and to praise the innocence of a child's mind) and its beautifully incorporated themes - like the idea, that the seconds books story unfolds like a game of chess.But this is "Wonderland: Revolutions", and Alice, now a young woman, must go to war, learn that "Underland" (?) is indeed a real place, and the only way to get home is not to just wake up, but to kill a towering demon, as... it was prophecied, I guess.Tim Burton didn't seem to have any idea what he wanted to add to the Alice-myth that hadn't been done before, so he constantly shifts back and forth between a nice children's movie in the tradition of the original Disney-movie and a dark, psychological thriller à la "American McGee's Alice", without ever reaching the quality or comitment of either of them.The only redeeming factor in this CGI-crap is, of course, the acting. Helena Bonham-Carter plays the Red Queen (or better, the Queen of Hearts, the screenwriters screwed that one up, too), and she seems to have the time of her life. She was the only character in the whole flick that made me smile, once or twice. Both Crispin Clover and Mia Wasikowska play their parts decent and nuanced enough, considering what's going on around them. Especially newcomer Wasikowska plays the confusion and hidden inner strength of her character quiet niece and subtle, and I'm looking forward to seeing her in a really good movie. Anne Hathaways White Queen was also noteworthy for her fragility and confined madness.But, yeah, this is, after all, a Johnny Depp-flick, and I guess he had it coming to damage his exceptional career by blindly trusting into Disneys Paychecks and Burtons.... whatever it is these two guys have in common. It's unbelievable! Here we have the same guy who played ingeniously Hunter S. Thompson and Jack Sparrow and Willy Wonka; he plays the quintessential MAD figure of western culture... yet he is easily out-acted by a CGI-cat. A few years back, the computer animated tears in The Lord of the Rings urged me to make some cynical remarks about the future of acting - but here we have an actor's whole performance depending on the photo-shopping done to his eyes. And, well, a wardrobe and make-up which even Ziggy Stardust wouldn't have worn in his weirdest times.So, to sum it up: Its a shame watching this material and those actors going to waste for the sake of a "narrative" that no one would have missed. It fails as "dark" fantasy film, and, what's worse, it fails as a children's story.The most depressing thought I had after leaving the cinema was: How many parents must have felt relieved that they never read this "crap" to their children? Now I know how it must have felt to be a Transformers-fan.
__label__4 X men 3: The best and the worst of the trilogy. The film begins better than the others with a lot of potential and a strong emotional charge, which leads you to believe that the second act will be nail bitingly intriguing and the finale explosive. But as the dreadful storyline, which deviates from the cartoon and comic immensely, unfolds, we are left as bewildered and unsatisfied as a diner who has been able to smell the gourmet meal from the kitchen, but is served 'Jellied eels and a pint'.I feel that Ratner was a little out of his genre on this one. There was no real character development for any of our mutant heroes, who seemed to just pop in and out of the story whenever a fight scene was to commence, to the point where some of our favourite X men were just cameos. And hardly any of the social, humanitarian issues, which are paramount to the concept of the X men, are delved into.Jean Grey is found alive, though neither she nor Professor X are able to control her extraordinarily powerful alter ego, The Phoenix. The obvious opportunity doesn't escape Magneto's attention who steps in to make The Phoenix the newest addition to his mutant militants. The government have concocted a 'cure' for the mutant gene and now with The Phoenix on his side, Magneto and his cohorts endeavour to destroy this so called cure, which he believes the government are using to wipe out mutants everywhere. Wolverine defiantly goes after The Phoenix to rescue Jean from her dominance. All the conflicting factors come to a head when Magneto unleashes his evil forces on the government establishment holding the 'cure'. The X men regroup and set out to thwart Magneto. An all out action packed rumble between the military, Magneto's mutants and the X men set up the final showdown.If you are not a die hard fan of the comic or cartoon you may enjoy certain plot twists, the variety of new and exciting mutants and some of the excellent action scenes, but will feel let down by the anti-climatic ending; overall for a non-fan it's a good watch. For a true fan of the X men, you will be bitterly disappointed at the fact that the film makes no attempt to stay true to its origin. (The opposite being one of the reasons why Spiderman is such a success). This, supposed last, of the X men films substitutes the amazing storyline of morals, ethics and action which Stan Lee weaved together, for a incoherent, unfulfilling sequence of events which would raise bile to the throat of anyone who actually read more than two of the comics or watched any of the cartoons. Also Jugernaught is as bad as he looks! Best scene: When Wolverine is being chased through the woods by a mutant who can produce wooden dangers from his body and throw them with acute accuracy.Should have been called 'The Y Men', as nothing about this film resembles our comic book heroes, and nobody knows why.
__label__4 Review: Like many other Pixar movies, you can't fault the look and feel of the movie, but it was a bit too kiddie for me. Usually that mix it up with adult and children humour, but this is just a straight out kids movie. It does look amazing through and you can see the hard work that the animation team went through, but it doesn't touch the first movie which was original and much more funnier. The new characters in this sequel, wasn't that great, and the storyline was a bit corny. I liked the twist near the end, which was unpredictable, but not enough to save the movie. It's definitely one for the kids, who will really enjoy it, and judging by the money that it made, they surely did. Watchable!Round-Up: Billy Crystal's voice as Mike, was pretty annoying after a while but John Goodman's voice really does suit Sulley. The attention to detail on each of the characters was brilliant along with the colours that were used by the Pixar studio. The race with the pink spiky balls made me laugh, but it does seem like Pixar are missing the magic that they had with movies like a Toy Story and the original Monster Inc. Maybe it's because they have moved Disney? Anyway, if you want the kids to sit in front of the TV whilst your cleaning the house, then this is the movie for you, but for adult entertainment, it's just average.Budget: $200million Worldwide Gross: $744million (WOW!)I recommend this movie to people who were fans of the original Monsters Inc. 4/10
__label__4 Transformers 2 suffers from complete utter lack of direction. The movie tries to be so many things and fails at all of them. It tries to be a comedy but the jokes have all been done time and time again, it tries to be dark but with no real threat and characters coming back to life it fails at this, it than tries to be a family adventure movie but with the crude language and sexual innuendo the movie fails at this too.The plot is non-existent. There does not seem to be anything other than MacGuffins to get from A to B. This would be fine if the characters are interesting or at least relatable. Not the case for this film as every single character is a thin as a paper. Even Shia, who I thought was the best thing in the first movie, loses all his charm and charisma and sleep walks through this.The action is surprisingly dull....the camera-work is just to shaky and far too close-up to grasp what is happening on screen. Robot fights take nothing more than 5 minutes at a time and the similarity of the robots designs makes it hard to see who you are supposed to be rooting for. Its even harder when none of the robots are even introduced properly.The first hour of the movie is easily the best part. Some of the charm is still intact. The film than comes to a crashing halt and gets very very boring. The finale does not live up to the build up and you find yourself looking at your watch or slightly drifting off. Continuous explosions, with no feel of threat or danger, draws you completely away from what's happening on screen.The first movie was decent but lost its charm after repeat viewing...Transformers 2 does not have any charm to begin with. A dull, boring mess.
__label__4 I'll keep this short.The movie was pretty average and the casting of Mila Kunis and James Franco was the nail in the coffin.Mila Kunis is just plain bad, wooden and awful in the role of Dizzydora or whatever. One of the worst performances I've seen. Really shockingly bad.Every time she opened her mouth I couldn't stop thinking "Shut up Meg".James Franco, as other reviewers have said, comes across as an unsympathetic, slightly creepy Oz. His performance is uneven to say the least. Over the top in some places, half asleep in others.Franco's "likeable conman" Oscar Diggs, entirely misses the mark, you won't hate him, but you won't give a crap what happens to him.The dialogue isn't strong, some of the visual effects are a bit dodgy and there are flaws in the direction. A strong performance from the leads could have easily saved this movie. Sadly, the terrible casting decisions rendered this film pretty much unwatchable for me.
__label__4 I like the first Tron. Not in an creepy over-obsessed way, but I regard it as a campy, retro glitterfest based on an delightfully silly idea. The basic concept stays the same in Tron Legacy. Computer programs are sentient beings inside the computer grid, probably deriving from the fact that they are created from someone's hope and dreams and therefore inherit some of their creators (or "users")soul. In the first Tron a "user", Flynn/Jeff Bridges, is whisked away into the computer world (by lasers, no less). In "Legacy" the son of Flynn is looking for his father 20 years after he strangely disappeared without a trace. No price for guessing where, and we also find ourselves in the computer world after a quite glum and outstretched intro. FINALLY.Turns out the world inside is equally glum. Now, with the way the use of computer have evolved and increased dramatically since the last movie I was expecting to see a grid teeming with all sorts of life and variety. That may be my mistake. I realize that the world in Tron Legacy may in fact be the sole creation of one being (Flynn/Jeff Bridges) with no interaction with the rest of the world, which may be plausible,given the theme of the movie, but still. Flynn copy/paste a lot and is obviously very fond of the "dark-gritty-stone-tool".All that aside, there been notables upgrades in the Tron world. Most technology looks, well, cooler. It is stunning visually, especially in 3d. My biggest gripe with the movie though is how clunky everything is. This should be a rendition of the world inside a computer, but stuff hisses, creaks and spew exhaustion. When did the digital world turn so analogue? Sure, from a scientific point of view the digital is indistinguishable from the analogue if it is complex enough, but why does it feels like a step backwards? The world in the older movie actually feels like a much more accurate rendition of a computer world than this. The new one is more like reality with fancy neon. Flynn turns his personal abode into a reality shrine, and eating what I guess is a virtually crafted pig, but that is him emulating reality. The motor of the first movie was that we could see games and programs run "as if it was in real life". With todays graphics that is already happening on-screen so the movie might have outlived its gimmick. If so there are more than enough other features from the digital world worthy of being represented in Tron. Why just demote the whole world then?I realise I haven't said anything about the acting. Well, there is none. Bridges tries his best to put some personality into Flynn. Not an easy task. Most of the time he just seems awkward. Our protagonist, whats-his-face, Sam is the sulky and estranged techno-wizz-kid we have all seen so many times before, only a bit older this time (27). The Tron from the title is there naturally, and he does... nothing. Boxlietner is in the cast, why not let him give old Tron a line at least? In the male world of computers there are as many as two female actor, but they are just the standard blockbuster version of the madonna/whore, aka spunky and bitchy. That boils down to sourpuss, hippie, spunky, bitchy, a creepy game-character and oh, there is also a Bowie, although not thee Bowie. Hello Disney, NEXT TIME YOU SHOULD CONSIDER ADDING SOME DIMENSIONS TO YOUR CHARACTERS, AND I DO NOT MEAN 3D, OK?Frankly, I'm thoroughly annoyed, and though not expecting much also surprisingly disappointed. Ah, well. The 4/10 is for looks, sounds and effort. It do look nice and the soundtrack is marvellous at times. I'm convinced that the musicians Daft Punk would make a better version of Tron themselves AND with more heart.
__label__4 We went to see Cars 2 with my boys who are 6 years old. We all loved the first movie, it had a simple to follow, heart-warming story and NO VIOLENCE!!!This movie had TONS of violence, guns, "dead" cars, cars getting bashed, burned, tortured. ARE YOU KIDDING ME!?!?!? Just because it was cars and not people did you think the kids wouldn't notice? It was a very hard to follow story for them. A full-on James Bond movie, with twists and gadgets, except in animation and with cars instead of humans.My twins could not repeat the story back to us when asked afterward. Espionage, oil wars and the likes were lost on the younger audience. The violence was full-on. Even Mater, the plain, redneck, lovable character was fitted with machine guns!! In fact the movie was more a Mater movie than a Lightning McQueen movie. We see McQueen in very few scenes compared. It more like a full feature Mater Tale than a sequel to the movie... plus it wasn't about racing at all but rather about oil wars.Very disappointing. My husband made a good point, he said it was as if it was aimed to the 8 year old who watched the original 5 years ago and are now 13 years old. Certainly NOT aimed at young kids. If your kids are very young and you do not approve of violence, beatings, killings and guns DO NOT TAKE THEM. I wish someone had warned us, we wouldn't have gone. I can't fathom what Pixar was thinking! I am now dreading Monsters INC 2... it will most certainly be ... I don't know... full of blood and guts? That seems to be their next step...
__label__4 When I go to see a Pixar movie I expect to be blown away. Cars 2 simply did not. There were many problems with Cars 2, mainly that the story strength just was not there. Yes it did have some funny moments but they were few and far between. The main problem with this movie however was that Pixar made Mater, voiced by Larry the Cable Guy, the main character. After 20 minutes into the movie I wanted to leave because of how annoying he was. Larry is annoying as a human, making him a the main character as a car is just stupid. It was honestly the only Pixar movie so far that I left feeling completely nothing. What a disappointment this was as this topped my summer movie list. What a disappointment...
__label__4 Hmm...Hmm...Hmm...ho hum dee. Terminator- 1984, we see a ground-breaking film with never before seen special effects and a story that was 10 years ahead of its time, Judgement Day- 1992, We see more groundbreaking film-making, a stellar cast, and one of the most iconic performances ever (GO ARNIE!!!), Rise of the Machines- 2003, not bad, especially considering that after T-2, that was it for Cameron, he was done, moving on to new things, new writers, new director, great rewritten history of Skynet reemerging after we all thought it was TERMINATED. And the return of Arnie. So...after about a year of hype (for myself especially, I am as the equivalent of a Trekkie in the Terminator universe), 2009, Terminator Salvation...Not groundbreaking, but with Christian Bale, Sam Worthington, Moon Bloodgood, McG, Seems like a damn good collection of actors and up and coming director right?? Well...here we go...First off, the film kicks off in the right gear, I seriously felt like I was watching a live action version of Fallout 3, post apocalyptic world depicted with great detail, some very good action scenes (and acting) early on, All seems to go well, Marcus Wright (Worthington) is introduced very well, so is Kyle Reese (Yelchin, Star Trek), and the Terminator world we saw so little of in T1 & T2 was all there.Buuuuut then what happens I can't even begin to try to figure it out. I swear there were 3 or 4 great ideas put into play by McG, but, when you start an idea, develop it, that just didn't happen, the whole film felt like it was jumping from one thing to another with very little explanation.Character development: where was it??? John Connor was the focal point in T2 & T3, staying alive, fighting...Well, even Christian Bale (amazing actor, by far one of today's best) couldn't deliver, but it wasn't his fault, He has what barely constituted as a supporting role, the whole film was revolved around who Marcus Wright was, but even that wasn't covered very well. Honestly, it got old hearing Bale scream and Worthington howl toward the sky. And even Bloodgood and Bryce Dallas Howard who played Kate Connor had little screen time and no development what so ever.Action: chock full of it, any thought or creativity put in it? NO, N-O. There were a totally of maybe 3 exciting moments in the whole film, I will not spoil them, because honestly, if this was just a post apocalypse action yarn, it was awesome, but its TERMINATOR, not at one point was there any new ideas put in any of the scenes, it felt like McG cheaply ripped off the previous 3 films (but with way more NOTICEABLE CGI), the major problem with Hollywood today, TOO MUCH CGI, NO PLOT DEVELOPMENT, and this film is no different.I and the theater cheered with one scene...the entrance of...well, no need to guess here. Was also about the only other homage to the originals (the truck chase from the trailer is excellent as well).ACTION FILM 6/10 TERMINATOR FILM 3/10, If there is going to be another one, Cameron needs to intervene and tell HIS look on the future war, and bring that someone back into the franchise (he won't be Governor forever!) This may be a discouraging review, but remember, its all in what you like. i love action movies, but with Terminator, you need plot too. Go see it and make your own assumptions, this is just mine, I'm sure some will love it, but it took Terminator in the direction Attack of the Clones took Star Wars
__label__4 Let me start by giving a summary of the book: A journalist travels the world AFTER the zombie outbreak to interview different people from different countries to see how they handled this massive infestation. It gives points of view from different characters on how they handled themselves and uses real-world scenarios to show realistically how such a thing would be combated. On to the movie: Where did ANY of this go? First of all, instead of showing how DIFFERENT people handle this situation, it shows how ONE MAN handles it. Brad Pitt. For a movie that seems to want to be taken seriously as true-to-life, it sure does fail when it introduces the premise that somehow a RETIRED UN investigator is the most important man in the world and the only one who can save it. If such were the case, why send him out with ONLY a handful of soldiers instead of a small army of Special Forces? Also, why introduce this young, brilliant doctor as the possible hope for humanity if he is only going to idiotically shoot himself in the first thirty minutes of the movie? To me it seemed like Brad Pitt said: "Woah, wait a minute. You can't let a dorky doctor save the world. I'm the hero! Kill him off!", stamped his foot, and went to pout in a corner. I had heard that Pitt (the producer) and Forster (the director) were at odds through the entire filming, so the script had to be re-written several times to accommodate Pitt's hissy fits, so I'm slow to blame Forster for this awful "adaptation".The zombies: LOL! These zombies are everything you'd expect if Disney decided to do a Pixar zombie film. Most of them are done using CGI, and the ones who are actual actors are completely non-scary and laughable. Gnashing their teeth like poorly acted Cenobytes from the Hellraiser series. In order to sell more tickets, they opted for a PG-13 rating, so there is no blood and I don't remember seeing a zombie kill a single person. How do you make a zombie movie when the antagonist which is supposed to strike fear into our hearts just seems like a football game gone horribly wrong? Super fast running and lots of flying tackles does not for a zombie apocalypse make.The plot: I know this movie was trying for something different, and failed horribly. They should have just called it "28 Months Later". The supposed plot twist at the end, which was re-written 4 or 5 times, seemed put together at the last minute, and as if the writers just said: "eh, screw it. Just do this and release the movie so we can get a paycheck." Anyone who thinks that making it a metaphor for the current state of events and painting the UN into the saviors of humanity is something new has obviously not seen the FAR superior District 9. I will not get into all the other plot holes so monstrous you could drive a bus through them.The acting: Who are these people? Why should we care about them? Their performances are wooden. They have such small roles because Brad Pitt seems to want to hog all the screen time, and even then his own performance is stilted and lackluster. He lacks any sort of emotion and I never once felt that I could connect to his character at all. The filmmakers would have done a much better job if he'd been introduced as an average joe.Summary: I see a lot of people praising the action in this movie, but I found it extremely boring. Any action presented was the same: "Brad Pitt goes to new country, Brad Pitt gets attacked, Brad Pitt saves a handful of people, Brad Pitt runs to new country". For the overbloated budget, this movie offered nothing new or refreshing. On top of that, it could not even succeed as a good zombie film. Movies like 28 Days Later, The Horde, and hell, even Cockneys vs. Zombies show that a great zombie film does not need a huge budget to make it great. This was simply Pitt's and Hollywood's attempt at taking something people love (zombies) and cashing in on it. The 7.4 rating I see this movie had must have been paid for, because 9/10ths of the user reviews I see for this film are just BAD! Same as the film itself. The good reviews I see praise it as "The Best Zombie Movie I've Seen"  which leads me to believe they haven't seen ANY zombie movies before, and that the movie is "Intelligent and Realistic", which if you see my above points, just isn't the case. Usually I am very forgiving in terms of movies lacking realism, but this one was trying to sell itself on that very premise. Also, I am not harsh on films for not being perfect adaptations of a book, but this is different, because it has absolutely NOTHING to do with the book at all aside from the wall in Israel and the title itself.4/10 simply because some parts of it did look nice, and I'm even being in a giving mood with that.
__label__4 If a film is sold by a trailer it's this one . I've never read the source novel but do know it is structured as reportage where the world has been changed by a zombie infestation leading to a new geo-political shape for the world so in many ways this is more of a prequel than an adaptation . I did like Danny Boyle's genre shattering 28 DAYS LATER and loved the sequel and unfortunately it looks like that franchise has ended so in some ways this could be a surrogate 28 MONTHS LATER . Add to this the trailers where the waves of infected storm barriers against heavily armed soldiers and we've got a Zombie classic in the making don't we ?No we don't because this is a film that gives the impression that it was written and made by zombies From the outset we get something incomprehensible - the outbreak itself . WWZ keeps the origins of the virus an enigma and right away this damages the premise . At least in 28 DL the audience are afforded an opening scene of the rage virus escaping and you're very quickly able to buy in to this scenario . WWZ doesn't do this but an opening scene alludes to a virus breaking out across the world via news reports . Cut to scientist Brad Pitt driving his family in Philadelphia and finds himself in a traffic jam . Within seconds people run screaming from their cars as rabid zombies run everywhere This scene is mildly effective but there's a spanner in the works . Two spanners actually . One is that's very clear that the incubation period of this virus is a few seconds almost identical to that established in 28 DL . In reality such a violent virus would spread like wild fire but the thing is it wouldn't be able to cross continents which renders the later parts of the film as incomprehensible from a logic point of view . Secondly you will find it impossible to buy in to this scenario . I know I didn't but please feel free to ask questions As the film progresses Brad Pitt's scientist - and I won't call him by his character name because he doesn't have a character - jumps on a plane to South Korea then off to Israel where the Israelis have managed to block out the infected by building a massive big wall " Wow that was quick Theo . The Israelis must be very good bricklayers to build a wall when the infection has only existed for a couple of days " Oh no because the Mossad chief got word from India a few week earlier that the Indian army were fighting zombies . Before you ask it's never revealed why the news media never got hold of this potential headline , nor is it revealed why when the rest of the world is battling Zombies this unknown virus never got in to Israel The action scenes in Jerusalem are impressive from a spectacle point of view but again lack internal continuity . Safe behind their wall the Israelis let in refugees - while armies of Zombies swarm around outside . Narrowly escaping the carnage Brad stops to amputate the hand of a female IDF soldier whose just been bitten which defies credibility " But Theo you know these Israelis are tough nuts and women have to endure pain and blood every month "Not in the same league as amputation though is it ? Then Brad phones the UN who tell him that he must make his way to WHO research lab in Wales . Don't ask why there's no nearer research centres between Cardiff and Jerusalem . while on the aeroplane a Zombie that just happened to be hiding in the cupboard jumps out and spreads the infection leading to IDF girl to throw a grenade that causes the plane to crash in Wales . So they have a short walk to the WHO research centre " Wouldn't blood loss caused by getting your hand amputated make you too weak to go for a short walk ? And wouldn't Britain being an island make quarantine against the virus much easier ? I mean if the Israelis managed it ? " Look sit down and shut up . I know this was a major plot point that the rage virus couldn't escape from Britain in 28DL but if you think you can write a better Hollywood screenplay join the 7 billion people heading towards Hollywood right now . The last half hour involves more idiotic plotting that rely on coincidence , good fortune and after spending nearly every scene pointing out that the Zombies are attracted to noise someone just has to shoot a gun . The film ends with a solution to the problem which doesn't make the slightest bit of sense but means the human race can now concentrate on wiping out the Zombies " But Theo won't the Zombies die of thirst ? " I said shut up . If anything about this film made any sense it have been more than a loud dumb Summer blockbuster . You do notice that everything about it seems to have commercial consideration . Brad Pitt jumping all over the world meeting so many different nationalities does seem a cynical attempt at audience identification . Likewise the very obvious lack of blood and gore might supposedly attract people who fear the post apocalypse / Zombie genre ( Hello Bob The Moo ) but they'll notice the lack of intelligent plotting which severely damages the film and gore hounds who enjoy blood and guts will be disappointed by the extremely inoffensive nature of WWZ . Danny Boyle you're needed
__label__4 It seems unfair to criticise the film for not being like its source material given that it obviously didn't try to be but I'm going to start by bringing that up anyway. The book had so many sequences that could have been turned into amazing set-pieces in a film and yet not one of them were used. The book also had some neat ideas about how a global outbreak and response play out. What might work? What would catastrophically fail? What would the cost be? Not one of these ideas were explored or even alluded to and there seems absolutely no reason why this was the case.It might have been okay to abandon these ideas if the film had some ideas of its own to explore or at least play out but it doesn't. Instead we follow Brad Pitt and Brad Pitt's baggage through a few set-pieces as he first escapes from and then looks into an outbreak of zombies. There's little else to say about it than that.The first major problem came down to the zombies themselves. For a zombie film to get that right is critical and World War Z stumbled pretty badly here. The physical appearance of the zombies is a clear problem. Given the film's penchant for shying away from blood and gore to keep its rating audience-friendly, the only things that separates these zombies from regular people are milky eyes, grey skin, and a tendency to bare and snap their teeth. They're not the bloodthirsty creatures at various stages of decay and ruin that feature in most zombie films. This is generally fine in close-ups but at a distance it's impossible to tell the zombies apart from regular people. And when most of your action scenes involve panicking people running away from what are allegedly zombies, having them pretty much indistinct from each other means you never get much of an inclination about the level of the threat or even what's going on.A possible solution would have been for the film to opt for the shambling moaning Romero-esque zombies of the book. Instead of running and tackling, having a slowly ever-advancing tide of danger would have turned the zombies into something to be feared rather than something to try and spot in a crowd.But even later when the film displays zombies in their 'docile' state its shown how little the film-makers understand how zombies are supposed to work. The jerking around and screeches were meant to be threatening and they are anything but. They are borderline slapstick and certainly comical judging by the outbreaks of laughter in the audience at my screening. They clicked their teeth together as if they enjoyed the sound. They repeatedly hit their heads against the wall in a way that was meant to seem deranged but just came across as silly. They spun and jerked around leading to a hilarious sequence of Pitt and two others essentially playing "Red Light/Green Light" with a snarling zombie. Nothing about these zombies seemed to work as intended.The second major problem came down to the complete lack of weight or tension. Brad Pitt isn't the type of actor anyone expects to be in danger, at least not when he's in an action film, so already there's the knowledge that he's fairly safe. But added to that, his character is a practically invulnerable bad-ass UN investigator whose field knowledge and ingenuity makes him able to adapt to any situation. His 'baggage', as I referred to them earlier, is played at first by his wife and two daughters as well as an orphan boy - far too cute to ever come into real harm in a film like this. The baggage is then played by a doctor and a team of soldiers who are so bereft of personality and character that there is no reason to care about them. He then teams up with a young Israeli soldier who is the closest person aside from Pitt to qualify to be called a character but unfortunately she doesn't seem to serve any purpose. His final baggage comes in the form of a team of WHO doctors. I won't say anything about them aside from pointing out that all four are named in the credits as "W.H.O. Doctor" despite being a key part of around a quarter of the film. Though I wouldn't recommend the film, to its credit it managed to attain a level of being entertaining and it never embarrassed itself, (despite a squeamish bit of product placement.) It was clearly let down by a few core problems and while certainly not a good film I'd feel a bit mean if I were to label it 'bad'. I'm disappointed that it painted itself as a zombie film for zombie fans while clearly being a toothless blockbuster to appeal to a broader audience, (however understandable that move may be from a film studio's perspective given the production problems and cost blow-out.) For this reason maybe the film tripped up and fell flat on its face but as it dragged itself to the finish line I'm willing to applaud it for that at least. I suppose all I can do it sit here and try to imagine what might have been...
__label__4 I'll start with the good. Brad Pitt +1 star, zombies +1 star, decent special effects +1, and a reluctant +1 star for the story.My first big issue with this film is the lack of a War. I mean come on, World War Z, I expected a war of epic proportion. Instead I got total zombie domination while "living" people retreated to whatever safety could be found. The "War" scenes were nothing but regurgitated zombie attacks while people flee screaming for their lives. The next big issue is the narrow scope of people capable of countering the threat. We have a UN something something that has the authority to command helicopters and navy vessels and apparently can convince anyone in the world that Gerry (Brad Pitt) is a good guy that shouldn't be delayed in his efforts by simply stating his name into a satellite phone. This person later lacks the power to keep Gerry's family safe on the boat, and demonstrates utter humility considering his rank when offers bed service to Gerry's family.As the story develops the audience becomes aware that Gerry is some kind of super duper ex military dude that is apparently the best in the world at all things. We're all hosed if Gerry doesn't deliver. He hooks up with another Rambo type girl in Israel I think. Point being all these elite military characters fail miserably at avoiding the one thing that attracts every zombie withing 100 miles, making NOISE!! They literally bump, kick, fall, shoot, yell at every opportunity given, attracting hoards of zombies in the process. I suppose this was necessary mechanic to zombie conflict, but it certainly didn't compliment their supposed elite skills.The story is weak, and the solution and family reunion are visible long before they should be, which only strengthens the disappointment in the movie. Where's my refund?
__label__4 I won't disparage anyone for what they find enjoyable. Everyone is entitled to their opinions. That being said, here is mine...The hallmark of an intellectually insulting film is when, early in the movie, each of the main characters stands around in a single room reciting one-liners that give away the entire plot. That happens about five minutes into Days of Future Past and serves as a staggering reminder that this ultimately is a movie for kids.Along the same vein, it would take the film watching experience of a child to not recognize that DOFP is basically an unoriginal mash-up of better films that came before it (the most obvious ripoffs being Back to the Future, Terminator 2, and The Matrix).In fact, DOFP is nothing more than a mutant version of Back to the Future, with fewer memorable lines, mediocre acting (save for the always excellent Michael Fassbender), without the classic soundtrack, and with no real villain.**Spoiler Alert** Plot Synopsis: The Matrix, I mean, DOFP, starts with the all-powerful Sentinels having basically destroyed civilization and terrorizing the mutants who remain in Zion, I mean whatever city they live in. Withing five minutes, we find out that a mutant has the ability to allow others to time travel, but that the farther back in time someone travels, the more difficult it is for Ellen Page to hold it all together. Of course, Wolverine is the only one who is strong enough to make the trip. Why are they time traveling? The Terminator, I mean, Wolverine, has to see to it that Sarah Connor, I mean, Raven/Mystique, doesn't kill The Brother From Another Planet, I mean Joe Morton, I mean the guy who creates Sentinels. What else happens in the movie? Nothing of consequence. A lot of running around, chasing, breaking into stuff, and a melodramatic half love-story involving an apparently alcoholic, depressed, and pathetic Professor X and Mystique.Surely someone out there understands my POV. Again, I respect everyone's opinion, but when I googled DOFP after seeing it and saw a 8.7 rating on IMDb (plus a 91% of RT), my eyes almost fell out of my head.Background/Disclaimer: I did not grow up reading comics. I occasionally watched, and enjoyed, the X-Men cartoon of the '90s. I have seen X-Men (really good), X2 (amazing), The Last Stand (disappointingly awful), and portions of First Class (no opinion).
__label__4 I really wanted to like "into darkness". I'm not a die-hard trekkie, but I like original series/movies well enough, and I really enjoyed the entire original Khan storyline. As soon as I heard the Khan rumors, I was both excited and anxious. Unfortunately, I think the anxious side won out.Don't get me wrong. It's a solid action flick, and the acting by pretty much everyone is fine, and Cumberbatch is amazing. But it's not star trek, and it especially is not wrath of khan, no matter how much it wants to be. Other reviews have focused on the good, so I'm going to focus on the bad (as I see it).First, in the originals, Khan is from central Asia and was played by a Mexican. In this movie, Khan is as English as the queen herself. Cumberbatch's excellent performance notwithstanding, why is he called "Khan Noonien Singh" if he's Engilish? The time travel event in the first movie would not have caused a fundamental change in Khan's race, accent, etc. It's a minor point, I know, but it really dragged me out of the movie.Second, key parts of the plot are uncomfortably repetitive of the original, with special effects added for the sake of hyperbole and all of the thoughtfulness of the original removed for simplicity. Though Kirk's journey into maturity is obviously meant to be introspective, it couldn't have been less subtle with a sledgehammer, particularly at certain key points in the plot. Parts of London and San Francisco are destroyed just to make the effects and reinforce what a bad guy Khan is, but the consequences of the horror go unrealized. Khan himself is the mechanism of a really cheesy reincarnation that follows a really cheesy exploitation of the original film.Third, although the acting by the crew is fine, the dialogue is sophomoric and obvious. McCoy is meant to be the conscience of the crew, the thoughtful one holding everyone back from rash decisions. Here, Karl Urban is given nothing but shoddy one-liners. Simon Pegg and Anton Yelchin are similarly disused.Abrams thankfully doesn't use as much camera shake as last time, but there are still plenty of lens flares, fast zooms, and weird angles, as well as nods to star wars. They're cheap, hack, and do nothing to advance the story. As a fan of both franchises, I hate that they will all soon suffer from these faults. Cut the redundancy and hack cinematography and try to come up with some creative original plots, JJ!
__label__4 The film has way too much action. Its Star Trek for crying out loud, the morals, technology, and characters should at least get some screen time? Apparently not."To boldly go..."? No.More like "To run crazily off a cliff".The characters have no depth, there are way too many explosions (Boring) and embarrassingly, the technology does not fit the time.The travel time between Kronos (Qo'noS) and earth is not the length of a conversation. Why would anyone fly a starship over an active volcano without shields, and if the shields were on, how did they run the transporter? Stupid.
__label__4 Adapting famous and well-respected classic literature can't be easy. The film industry's track record attests to this: for every Ran, there are five misfires that people quickly forget. The filmmakers behind this year's adaptation of The Great Gatsby make the task seem impossible. This movie is a disaster.Much has been made of director Baz Luhrmann's overblown style in The Great Gatsby, but that is just one of the movie's many issues. Actually, let's start with the production design. This movie is super polished and glamorous, but everything looks so blatantly fake. CGI stands in for actual set design and shooting locations. One of the movie's few redeeming features is the scope of the production, but even that is unimpressive when considering most of the movie was made on a computer. Admittetly, the costumes and makeup/hair look nice, and the movie will surely receive some award attention in that department. The script and the acting are where The Great Gatsby really falls apart. There is no depth of character for anybody involved. The central three characters don't come across as real people. Nick Carraway has nothing to do but stand around and watch Gatsby and Daisy court each other. His frequent narration is baffling pointless, often describing the events exactly as they happen or directly telling the audience the movie's themes, as if we are too stupid to notice them. Carraway frequently stands in the corner watching the action unfold, instead of driving the plot forward with any interaction with other characters. This is a huge problem because Carraway serves as the main protagonist (Gatsby isn't introduced for over 20 minutes). Gatsby and Daisy don't fair any better. Their romance takes up the majority of the screen time in acts two and three, but there is no chemistry, nor do they display any emotional connection with each other. Instead, Gatsby and Daisy just tell each other how they feel with laughably clunky dialogue. There are no scenes showing the intense feelings they supposedly have for each other. They speak at each other instead of having actual conversations.The actors cannot handle the script's horrible dialogue. The central three actors (Maguire, DiCaprio, and Mulligan) deliver the cornball dialogue with misplaced self- serious melodrama, making many of the conversations draw laughter from the audience. Several members of the supporting cast take the material and ham it up, causing a jarring inconsistency in tone. Lurhmann shows no motivation to rein in his actors.Speaking of the supporting cast, some of the prominent characters from the first act completely disappear for most of the movie. The only person who shows some level of depth and complexity is Elizabeth Debicki's Jordan Baker, but she vanishes for over an hour, before coming back to do absolutely nothing. Isla Fisher's Myrtle Wilson suffers a similar fate.The use of music should be mentioned, if only because it is drawing some criticism. Using modern music in this movie wasn't a bad idea, but the execution is nothing remarkable. Instead of using contemporary pop for any dramatic or stylistic purpose, it just seems like Lurhmann picked some songs off his ipod and threw them into the movie.The Great Gatsby is a failure on nearly all levels. It's individual flaws could be overlooked if the movie came together to form something cohesive and meaningful, but the whole affair feels hollow. Any symbolism or larger thematic goals get lost in the glossy extravagance. The filmmakers seem to be aware of this, so they pound the themes into the viewers with nothing resembling subtlety or grace. It's truly baffling how anybody in Hollywood could green-light a script this poor, and then throw millions of dollars at the production. The Great Gatsby is a soulless movie that covers up its lack of passion and heart with computer generated spectacle. All signifying nothing.
__label__4 First of all, let me say that F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby is absolutely one of my favourite novels. Additionally, though it has been years since I've seen it, the Robert Redford film was brilliant and I loved it. From the moment I saw the trailers for this version I was heavily skeptical. Heaven knows that someone like Baz Luhrmann needs to make things flashy and extravagant and put a modern twist on a classic story. He did some brilliant work with Romeo and Juliet nearly 20 years ago. However, I was worried and now seeing it it has been confirmed that his version of Great Gatsby is an excessive, chaotic, bright, jazzy mess that completely misses the entire concept of Fitzgerald's classic. The modern day rap music and remixes weren't awful but also weren't necessary either. The elaborate (and admittedly brilliantly done) set pieces of a bizarre almost apocalyptic New York and surrounding area seemed to just take away from a story that should be entirely character driven. The story does mostly follow Fitzgerald's story and yet at the same time completely misses its mark and the pacing felt off entirely. There is no doubt that The Great Gatsby is not an action flick or anything but parts of it dragged.This is a talented group of people and yet, in my opinion, completely miscast and that includes the legendary Leonardo DiCaprio. DiCaprio was so miscast as Gatsby and he tries so incredibly hard that it comes off as fake. If I had to hear him excruciatingly and awkwardly say "Ol' sport" one more time I was going to scream. DiCaprio is a brilliant actor as long as he has the right role and this was not even close to right for him. He was too young (or at least baby faced), awkward and didn't fit the bill. Same could be said for Tobey Maguire. I don't know why they chose to cast these baby faced actors for the film but it doesn't work. Maguire carries the film decently but just not good enough. Joel Edgerton is probably the best cast in his role as the abrasive, womanizing Tom Buchanan. He is definitely the most watchable and the most convincing in his role. Carey Mulligan carries herself well and certainly has this subtle sexuality that is perfect for Daisy and yet the character comes across as near boring. The chemistry between her and DiCaprio is okay but not timeless and passionate the way it should be between Daisy and Gatsby. The cast work well together but not as good as I think it should have been.The single issue with this version of The Great Gatsby is that all this flash and jazz has been created without any thought to the true heart of the story. This story is all about greed, pride, obsession, and gluttony and the threads of each one of those is barely existent in this story. I'm actually very surprised that the film is doing as well as it is especially after being delayed for a year before release. One of the most powerful scenes in the original film was Gatsby's death and once again it is handled well, and powerful and its also artistically done. I simply felt that the cast tried far too hard and came across as unconvincing and the film had more modern glitz and glam than was necessary. The pacing was nearly excruciating at times as it stumbled through an otherwise classic story. I had very low expectations going into this and it met those low expectations but barely and did nothing to exceed them. 4/10
__label__4 This film is certainly an outstanding visual spectacle that boasts some of the most impressive, fluid and stunning cgi sequences I've ever seen. The photography is fantastic and the 3d technology is used effectively to create stunning, visually amazing scenes. However, that is the only aspect of the film that I believe deserves merit at all. Despite the continuous action, destruction and battles, I found this film to be extremely boring, and the final battle, which claimed the last hour of the film was far too long and drawn out and it greatly prevented me from appreciating the visual spectacle that is the final battle as it's so long it becomes tedious and I couldn't wait for it to end. The extensive use of cgi action scenes was what ruined the film for me, and although I never fully agree with the typical view that modern films have too much cgi and effects and not enough good story, this film certainly presented a convincing case that the above statement is true. As there is so much shooting, exploding and fighting in this film there is relatively little time for dialogue, which was largely, poorly written, and full of clichés. Finally, I didn't rate the casting of Rosie Huntington-Whiteley or her performance. She has clearly been chosen for the role for her good looks and her great sex appeal although I think she shines brighter as an underwear model than blockbuster film actress. Also, It seems unbelievable to me that Shia LaBeouf's character, although not a bad looking guy, has been in relationships with 2 characters played by women who have both topped the annual FHM 100 sexiest women in the world poll. Rosie has clearly been cast to attract more male viewers, bring sex appeal that the film didn't really need and throughout struck me as being far out of Shia's league.
__label__4 Witwicky The Movie! Once again, Transformers is not focused to the Transformers but focused to a human being named Sam Witwicky. This is why I never liked Michael Bay's Transformers. This is why I already predicted "Revenge of the Fallen" will fail two years ago because the movie is not interested with Optimus. How can this series be called Transformers if it doesn't have enough Transformers? The Autobots only appear when there are Decepticons attacking and the preachy scenes about them. If there's no action, there's the life of Witwicky. His life is never interesting but the film just wants us to show how important it is. How about less Witwicky and more Optimus? Would it make the film better? I guess so.Transformers movies never gets a good story. But we still watch these movies for the Autobots and the explosion and the loud noises. Fact: The scenes of the Autobots only exist in the action scenes and the important scenes about them. The rest is all Witwicky and his chick and his uninteresting & unimportant life. There are new Transformers in this film but we never get to know them because it doesn't only have new Transformers, it also have excessive cameos. These celebrity cameos has more screen time than the robot newbies.The special effects were the only merits of this trilogy. All the transforming, all the robots, all the explosions, all the stuff jumping off the screen. Another Fact: The 3D is "DARKER of the Moon". We sure love the action and the explosion but the climax is focused to Sam Witwicky's survival again, and the soldiers and Witwicky again and his new girlfriend and Witwicky then Patrick Dempsey(not spoilers dude) and Witwicky. It's all Witwicky! Yeah, there's Optimus and Bumblebee but mostly focused to Witwicky and the humans.Saddest thing is, the scenes of Bumblebee were also moderated. He is the only Autobot in the series we know the most and loved but here he is now like Optimus and the rest of the Transformers. Why can't they just call these films "Sam and the Transformers" or "World Invasion: Chicago and Egypt and LA and other places where the Transformies went"? Sounds more credible than "Transformers". I'm not really trolling Shia LaBeouf but him as Witwicky is like playing the same roles all over again. I bet he love Michael Bay for giving him these hot chicks. Rosie Huntington-Whitely was only cast for her sexy body and giving Sam a backup. She doesn't improve Megan Fox's Mikaela Beans.Transformers is supposed to be about the Transformers. But it has more humans, and Witwicky, and Cameos and Witwicky. I think Michael Bay is getting lazy. He's not taking this movie so seriously and the movie ends too quickly and he throws a lot of humanity and celebrity cameos in his excessive runtime. By the way this movie is called "Transformers" not "Human Celebrities". Well, Bay made a grave mistake.
__label__4 Visually, with Henry Jones Junior (he is rarely called "Indiana" or "Indy" in this film) swimming in his baggy grandpa pants and shocks of grey-white hair peeking out under an ever-crisp, rarely-dirty brown fedora, you really don't get the feeling that you're watching anything historic--but a few of the old John Williams refrains drive something primal bubbling to the surface of those of us who grew up idolizing Indy.The reason that the music is the first thing to be examined here, is that it's one of very few things that evoked that sort of reaction in The Kingdom of the Crystal Skull. A movie fraught with missteps and an obvious misunderstanding of its own audience, it's exactly the type of summer blockbuster developed to make money at all costs: things blow up; there's aliens and Nazis--well, not Nazis so much as Russians with grey shirts and jackboots; an unnecessary youthful sidekick (to bring in the teenagers, you see); and a little something extra borrowed from Bryan Singer's abominable Superman Returns. To ascertain that you know it's a Spielberg picture, the Russians are never subtitled (see also: every Arab in Munich or about 90% of all Germans in any film except Schindler's List); this way, the "evil" characters can be thoroughly and literally dehumanized.The film oozes 1950s--Russian spies, nuclear testing, a screening of Howdy Doody and Dr. Jones on a sort of academic blacklist all take place in the first ten-or-so minutes of the picture (as doessad to say the high point of the film for mea cameo appearance by Neil Flynn, a friend of Ford's from The Fugitive who is best known for his portrayal of The Janitor on ABC sitcom Scrubs). The filmmakers have discussed at length how, while the earlier Jones films were an attempt to capture the magic of '30s and '40s adventure films with a contemporary feel, The Kingdom of the Crystal Skull will be a '50s-style action romp with some science-fiction sensibility thrown in for good measure (a questionable choice to start, as many of those films eventually ended up as Mystery Science Theater 3000 fodder). In an attempt to capture that feel, you have some campy dialogue, some stock characters and Shia LaBoeuf as Arthur Fonzerelli. There's a fairly generic soda fountain brawl, initiated by LaBoeuf and set to the tune of Shake, Rattle & Roll, which solidly plants this film in its era. This is an interesting artistic choice because in the previous Indy films, even with their date stamps, the adventures that took place were largely relatively timeless.The other aspect of the film that is bound to turn some heads--it already has, both in pre-screenings and on the Internet as eagle-eyed fans dissected the trailers--is the role that extra-terrestrials play in the picture. As in Spielberg's classic Close Encounters of the Third Kind, there is no dialogue, as such, shared between man and his visitors...but their presence is strong and pervasive, particularly in the second half of the film. Using Roswell as a jumping-off point, it is revealed that the good Dr. Jones has been used as a government agent in a variety of capacities since we last caught up with him--he is a Colonel in the Army, apparently, and also has worked with the CIA, MI6 and as a spy against the Russians in the time since Hitler autographed his father's diary for him in the early '40s.The adventure sequences in the picture are hit-or-miss; while some of the car chases and fight sequences are good, and a lot of the side jokes are on the mark, there are times (Marion is injured while driving, but mysteriously gets better) that it's hard to follow visually what's going on as they try to pack too many characters and subplots into a fast-moving sequence. Many of Harrison Ford's comic moments are on-target, but other diversionssuch a CGI-rendered prairie dogs and LaBoeuf's own private army of monkeysbring to mind some of the more artistically-questionable moments of Return of the Jedi and detract from the seriousness of consequences faced by our protagonists.Dr. Jones also doesn't get very much solo screen time. Henry himself has also become a little more cautious in his old age, while everyone around him seems to have become more like Indiana Jones. Mutt and Marion are decisive and powerful figures, while Indy often finds himself sitting on the back of a motorcycle or behind them in the car, shouting, "No, don't do that! It's dangerous!" As action heroes go, Indy has been turned into a great family man. In case a CIA agent of dubious allegiances, a kidnapped ex-girlfriend and her tagalong son weren't baggage enough, Indy spends most of the film carting around an octogenarian in a semi-catatonic state, who may be the "key" to finding the Lost City of Gold in the same way that his father was key to the recovery of the Holy Grail.Ultimately, Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull is a film that, while not entirely bad, is nowhere near worthy of its lofty pedigree. As generic action films go, it may have provided some level of entertainment in the vein of National Treasure....It's the attachment of "Indiana Jones" to the title and the involvement of Harrison Ford, George Lucas and Steven Spielberg that raised expectations and standards to a level that none of those individualseach a shadow of his former selfcan meet any longer. It will doubtlessly open at #1 and secure the kind of critical and financial success that guarantee it a sequel if all involved want to make onethe question, really, is whether or not they should.
__label__4 Although this movie did have some great parts and a strong overall message, you will have to sit through 90 minutes of one anxious, overly harsh, morbid, stormy or unpleasant scene after another. There were not enough characters to enlighten us from time to time, even if just for a moment. People keep using the word scary, but I prefer to describe differently. Remember that feeling you had while watching James Franco in 127 hours or Sandra Bullock in Gravity or even Tom Hanks in cast away? That feeling where you start hoping that something good will finally happen? But it never does? Well this is your kid version of it! There were a couple of lighter scenes that were actually quite powerful but not enough for my taste. I though it was a bit too much, even for older kids, (and I'm not sensitive or easily offended at all.) Worth a watch maybe once you can see it at home and not feel bad about walking out or having your children be frightened by too many intense scenes that leave them feeling really sad and helpless.
__label__4 Pixar execs used to say that the story was indispensable in their filmmaking. They were right. It is too bad they didn't follow their own advice in making Brave. As a formulaic Disney movie, it would be average (though with above average visuals). But our family (kids' ages from 10 to 18) doesn't bother seeing formulaic Disney movies anymore. We saw it yesterday, and everyone was disappointed. "Cliche," one of our children said. "Easily the worst Pixar movie I've ever seen," said another (though none of us has seen Cars 2). I chuckled once.Even though the moral of the story is that we're free to change our fate, the stock Disney characters were firmly locked into their roles and we could see the ending coming less than halfway through. I'm sorry I saw it at all.In a wonderful documentary called "The Pixar Story," John Lasseter tells the story of how Disney suits almost ruined "Toy Story," which had to be remade radically in order to be saved. It feels like this time the Disney suits succeeded.Is this a sign of things to come? Has Pixar been domesticated? With tickets so ridiculously priced, I'm not going to a theater next time to find out. We'll wait and rent.
__label__4 Mix Brother Bear with almost any princess film and this is what you get. The characters (surprisingly for Pixar) were poorly developed; this is especially true for the mother, where I was expecting some kind of back story, or at least a more believable development of the mother-daughter relationship. But no, apparently you're best buddies again and the mother will just change her mind on everything she believed previously, through a single fish-catching montage. ...Really? And don't get me started on 'the bad guy'. This 'evil bear' appears in only two scenes - one in which they escape from him, and one in which he returns and then gets squashed by a rock. In fact, the story would have been almost identical had the 'bad guy' been cut out of the script entirely.Perhaps you could blame the complete underdevelopment of the plot and characters on the relatively short runtime (100 minutes, minus the equally disappointing 'short' at the beginning). But that wouldn't make sense, as Toy Story 3, a brilliant film, had the same running time.I suspect that they are cutting back their effort on all fronts (writing, production time) bar animation, knowing full well that people will pay for their films regardless, so 'why bother?'.Following the equally mediocre Cars 2 with this, it's clear that Pixar really needs to step up their game.So please, do not support the decline of a once great film studio.
__label__4 I suffered through the endless parade of BRAVE trailers for months. So many months. I began to feel the movie had already come and gone. And the trailers told me the single most important thing about this movie: Pixar hired a crack team of PhD mathematicians, created 5 new fields of modeling mathematics, and bought 27 BlueGene supercomputers just to render the girl's hair.The hair bounces. The hair swings. The hair toussles. The hair drops stray locks here and there. The hair compacts. The hair billows. The hair responds to the wind. The hair responds to momentum and interia. The hair responds to humidity. The hair reflects every known shade or "firey lass" red along with previously unknown shades the computers postulated and shades the human mind cannot grasp.And the hair is wrapped around a familiar, mediocre, largely predictable story that you've seen several times before in several other "girls can do anything boys can do" movies and TV sitcom episodes.Don't let Pixar's technical expertise and visual humor distract you from the cold hard truth that the underlying story is pretty pale. The visual styling is dazzling and inspiring, the attention to detail is mind-boggling. Pixar makes unprecedented use of technology to create a previously unseen richness of environment.Which may explain why they had no energy left to craft a story you'd want to sit through.You've seen each fundamental step of the story anywhere from a million to infinity-minus-one times before. Puberty-straddling girl wants to be a free spirit. Girl complains that NO ONE UNDERSTANDS HER. Girl uses various tricks and ruses to try to demonstrate she's capable but only demonstrates that she's impatient and devious. Girl resorts to a dirty trick to manipulate parents who JUST DON'T UNDERSTAND HER. The dirty trick back-fires and girl spends most of the rest of the movie trying to undo the harm she caused and mistakenly comes to the conclusion that cleaning up her mess proves she's as cool as she thought she was, and isn't a stubborn, willful, spiteful, selfish, manipulative, deceitful, self-absorbed little bitch, not even a little.Remind you of an episode of "That's So Raven"? See BRAVE at a second-run dollar cinema. Or wait and see it on NetFlix.
__label__4 Our family loves Pixar films, so we eagerly anticipated the release of 'Brave.' However, we were very disappointed. It is the worst Pixar film we've ever seen.The main character, Merida, is not a lovable heroine like Mulan; instead, she is a whining, bratty child. She has no endearing qualities like one would find in Snow White or Belle.The plot does not make sense, either. Merida doesn't want to get married and believes if she changes her mother's mind on the matter, she won't have to. Nevermind the culture of the time and pressures of her father and her political system, right? It's nonsense that changing her mother's mind would have any effect on whether or not she'd have to get married.We hadn't read a lot of reviews before going, so we were a little surprised by the whole plot, which is that Merida's mother is turned into a bear by Merida's selfish act of poisoning her with a cake she gets from a witch. The mother dealing with being in the bear body is funny for about thirty seconds. Unfortunately, it goes on for the majority of the film.I guess we're supposed to see that mother and daughter find common ground in the woods and come to respect each other. However, emotionally, the film is completely flat. You will not find the loving family bonds from The Incredibles here! And forget about the heart string tugs you saw in Up... not happening in Brave.The accents are over the top. Yeah, I get it, they're Scottish. But we're not. They could have toned that down a little.The potty humor and grotesque portrayal of EVERY adult male in the film made it feel more like a lower-class Dreamworks film than a Pixar/Disney.Overall, very disappointing. Had it been a Dreamworks, it would have been maybe a 7/10, but Pixar has set the bar so high with other films, that we really expected better.
__label__4 and let's hope they don't get any worse, if there even is another sequel following this uninspired sci-fi action flick accidentally populated with characters from the star trek universe.my first reaction was aaaaaaaaagh.... AAAAAAAGH!!!!production values... check. casting... check. sexy new alien.... check. banter.... check (sort of, sometimes). pacing... check, i guess. visually stunning sets.... check. but star trek? no, no, no, no no no. this is a sci-fi action film that happens to use characters from the abram's cast.the villain is bland and the plot uninspired. oh, no, the galaxy/enterprise is in danger. granted that's going to be part of any plot line here, probably, but how it's executed does make a difference. did they do even one thing to continue the expansion/reimagining of the star trek universe? did they, for instance, pick a thread out of "into darkness" and start to develop the human/klingon conflict plot line? did they make good and interesting use of their talented supporting players? not even close. no real character evolution. lots of exposition for disposable characters, though, done in what is frequently the least interesting way--the character merely relating details of their history (without even good dialogue or tension to add to the moment).sorry... i've been a fan since TOS... i loved abram's vision. i was saddened to see this release and i hope it doesn't kill the franchise, but i also hope it's not a sign of things to come.as a final word... anton, you will be missed. regardless of the ultimate quality of this film, your marvelous contribution as ensign chekov and many other creative works will stand testament to your considerable talent and gift to all who enjoyed them. taken from us far too young.
__label__4 I had seen the previous two Rush Hour films and had loved both of them. The goofy antics of Chris Tucker mixed with the amazing martial arts moves of Jackie Chan made both of the previous Rush Hour films funny and entertaining. Rush Hour 3 is missing both the heart and the feel of the previous Rush Hour films. It is neither enjoyable or believable. It is simply a mess with little humor and is the proof that is needed to show the when a comedy film has a good sequel, another attempt shouldn't be made.The plot is rather complicated. Chief Inspector Lee is now the bodyguard of Ambassador Han (who is from the first film) who is on the way to give a report at the World Criminal Council concerning the Triad crime organization. After and attempt on the Ambassador's life, Lee and Carter seek to find out who is responsible. After a cheesy scene where the promise the Ambassador's daughter they will find the men responsible, they are off to Paris to investigate. Along the way they meet a strange cab driver, a sexy dancer who may have connections with the Triads, and a man who may be linked with Lee besides being an enemy.The main problem with Rush Hour 3 is too many things don't make any sense at all. To start it out the plot is a bit hard to understand. Tho whole movie I was waiting for a plot to be revealed to discover by the end nothing had really happened. There are villains that are just added on and mirror images of previous villains, particularly the knife throwing girl who reminded me a lot of the girl from Rush Hour 2. Also the main villain is never properly addressed and at the end when Lee and Carter 'save' the day, you feel kind of empty inside.Most of the movie did not flow well. There are a few funny scenes but I found the camera turning a bit too many times to Chris Tucker for him to go on one of his now famous rants. There is no character development. Lee and Carter both feel like statues on the screen. Mix that with very poor writing (I almost threw up when Jackie Chan was on a swing singing to Chris Tucker, I am not lying) and you get a poor film. Even the action scenes, which the Rush Hour films are known to be good for, aren't any good. They are boring and unbelievable to say the least. I found Rush Hour 3 to be a big let down. I rarely laughed. The jokes were too far-fetched and unbelievable for my taste. I did like the fight scene on top of the Eiffel Tower but even that got out of hand. Tucker has a few good moments but I am really beginning to wonder what exactly Jackie Chan is considering doing with himself. His parts were some of the cheesiest and most unbelievable parts of the film (and I am not talking about his martial arts, which there is little of). All in all avoid Rush Hour 3 and pray there is no Rush Hour 4 in the works.2/5 stars
__label__4 I don't know what I was thinking going into 2012. I guess I hoped it wasn't as generic as the trailers made it seem. Every trailer I'd ever seen for the movie made it look pretty much exactly like The Day After Tomorrow and it pretty much was. Famous landmarks getting destroyed, mass destruction, hero outrunning/driving/flying mass destruction, family rifts that get healed up at the end, Inconvenient spouses offed and then completely forgotten about/ignored for the sake of reconciliation with exes. All the cliché trademarks are all present and correct, doing their duty by merely showing up. To be fair it's a competent enough, if silly, disaster movie which offers no surprises whatsoever while laying on more (admittedly impressive looking) empty spectacle for the sake of empty spectacle.It felt way too long at nearly 3 hours and at least half of that was the build up. Predictable and seen it all before buildup at that. We've all seen it before. Strange geological anomolies. Nerdy tech guys coming up with unbelievable numbers that mean bad sh*t is gonna be going down. Officials that don't buy it then eventually do, the crazy survivalist dude that everyone thinks is nuts that really knows what's going down (here played by a very entertaining Woody Harelson, probably the best thing about the movie) etc.You can pretty much go with your impression of the trailer for this movie. What you get here is what you expect to get from what the trailer shows you.At best 2012 is totally by the numbers and at worse absolutely ridiculous, cliché and even a bit insulting really.....
__label__4 I'm not sure how to start this review so I'll just get right into it: This movie isn't good. It makes no sense. There is no room to get immersed in this world because there is no story to relate to. It's all just stuff happening; fluff. Beautiful, well made fluff mind you, but at its core this movie is a steaming hot mess.Here's the plot from what I gathered: Mila Kunis is suddenly the majesty of the Earth and has to protect it from a bunch of rich douchebags that live in Jupiter's atmosphere who want to use it for harvesting grounds or something. It's a dumb plot, and every scene that tries to move the plot forward is a scene wasted. The only interesting parts of this movie are the visuals and Channing Tatum's character, but even he is given absolutely no character development. He's just a badass space agent, or something. I don't even remember.The characters end up the same way they began - there was no journey to redemption or revelation for anyone. It was just do this, do that, stop this, go home, the end. And they try to include multiple stories, like Mila Kunis' relationship with her family (boooring); Caine (Tatum) and Stinger's (Sean Bean) history (wholly underdeveloped), the whole villain arc...The villains in this movie are spoiled brats. Seriously. They're not scary, they're not intimidating, there was no point in the movie where I was like "oh man sh*t is about to go down"; there was just no intrigue. Their motives were all over the place. It's not worth trying to piece together every plot point they throw into the movie because it will just lead to confusion and disappointment, and eventually frustration when you realize how much potential was wasted in creating this massive universe. The lizards looked really cool. Why not have more of them? Oh we're just going to focus on the playboy brat now, okay.I really wanted to care about this universe. It has a Star Wars vibe in parts, like the "royal" wedding scene and the space battles, but there were no good characters to experience this adventure with. You're just watching things happen with no consequences, or at least none you cared about.The acting was fine in this movie. Channing Tatum and Sean Bean in particular gave great performances, and Eddie Redmayne as the primary antagonist was decent as well. Yeah, he's an Academy Award winner, and as much as I hate to say it I have not seen The Theory of Everything yet but I loved him in Les Mis so I was really hoping he would save this movie. Unfortunately the material he's given is absolute garbage, so in an effort to make the character stand out, Redmayne give him a weird, eerie, whisper voice that was akin to a hundred year old man trying to force words out from the back of his throat. But hey, I think it worked. The guy is completely unlikeable so might as well give him a unique trait to remember him by. Good on Mr. Redmayne because he succeeded. The only things I will remember about this movie are the cool visuals, the wasted potential, and his creepy voice.Don't see this movie. Unless you want to see some really great CGI for a couple hours, which can be found in much better places by the way, you won't find anything worth salvaging from Jupiter Ascending. It was a nice effort but ultimately a swing and a miss.
__label__4 I'll be upfront and warn those contemplating watching Jupiter Ascending that you need to go in with low expectations to enjoy the film. Unless your idea of what makes a film good is huge explosions, pretty characters prancing around in elaborate costumes and beautiful visuals. After all, who cares about plot, lines and pacing right?Jupiter Ascending is really very much a visual feast but nothing more than that. The action sequences are generally well paced and I applaud the fact that CGI for the actions were kept minimal. The costumes are stunning (as are the actors).Which is a great pity because, on paper, Jupiter Ascending really had potential.For a start, like all sci-fi films, Jupiter Ascending is ambitious in its storytelling. An entirely different reality of an alternative universe with its own ecosystem, species and history is created. There are soldiers spliced with animal DNAs such as Caine (Channing Tatum) who has some wolf in him and Stinger (Sean Bean) who has some bee in him (guess where they got their names from?). There was potential to explore and mine all that richness for more stories but this is undermined by the weak delivery of the first film in what the studios were probably hoping would be a new franchise.While the plot of Jupiter Ascending was hackneyed, it had pretty interesting characters whose backstories would have been fun for the audience to explore. I could have seen the many fanfiction pieces that fans would have spun off from the story of Caine, Jupiter and the Abrasax family. Let's be honest, the basic plot line of The Matrix, the film franchise that the Wachowskis are renowned for, was pretty cliché too – the story of a Chosen One who comes out of nowhere and whose destiny is to save the world. It was the treatment of this plot premise (as well as really cool action sequences and visuals) that made The Matrix such a groundbreaking series. Jupiter Ascending's basic plot premise was this too but the treatment was a complete letdown.The cast is also one that is renowned for not just their good looks but also their ability to act. Somehow though, the directors succeeded in not tapping on that ability. I can't help but wonder what kind of directions Andy and Lana Wachowskis gave Eddie Radmayne for me to give such an exaggerated and overly affected performance as Balem. It reminds me somewhat chillingly of how Natalie Portman almost killed her career with her expressionless and emotionless turn as Amidala in the Stars Wars prequel trilogy. At least Radmayne has The Theory of Everything that is out in the same season and that can probably help cushion the fallout from Jupiter Ascending.To the Wachowskis' credit, Mila Kunis and Channing Tatum have some chemistry. While their performances are not going to garner them any Oscars, they put in decent performances to, I think, ward off any Razzie nominations. It also helps that they are pretty easy on the eye. Apart from these three actors, it is hard to discern the performances put in by the rest of the cast as their characters do not appear to add to the story. It makes it difficult for one to give a fair critique of their performances hence I'll refrain from that here.Jupiter Ascending could also have been one of the few female-led action films that could have been a successful film franchise, showing that when female-led action films succeed, it's not necessarily a quirk. This would have been helpful in Hollywood's evolution (if you haven't figured out from my name, yes, I'm female).It also could have been the film that would have move the Wachowskis' career out of its current state where the siblings are now more renowned for the visual flash and bang in their films rather than the creative storytelling and treatment that was showcased in The Matrix.
__label__4 I would have thought that after the 15+ years since The Matrix that consumers would be less and less dazzled by visual effects in film, but apparently I was the only one to take the red pill and see beyond the illusion of this movie. Sure you'll get otherworldly visuals and some pretty neat future-tech in Jupiter Ascending but that's where the takeaway stops. The story is a classic one where a seemingly insignificant individual, in this case Jupiter Jones (Kunis), is suddenly thrust into a much larger and complicated universe than her day-to-day as a maid. As fate would have it, she happens to be the reincarnation of the matriarch of an extremely powerful dynasty that controls a vast industrial empire in the galaxy. The oldest heir to the mother's inheritance is none other than Oscar-nominee Eddie Redmayne, who for whatever reason has difficulty speaking and doesn't want Jupiter to claim what is rightfully hers. I'll give the Wachowskis that they they've created an incredibly elaborate alternate universe that is equally rich in scope and potential, but they fail to generate the least bit of depth to their characters. Every person you meet is a one-dimensional caricature you'd find in some other sci-fi story.Honestly the scope is too ambitious to warrant any initial investment in Jupiter or any of the other supporting actors like Channing Tatum and Sean Bean. It's literally just 2 hours of zero-tension action sequences and clichéd dialogue that lead to a resolution that the audience couldn't care less about. Sure the tech is pretty cool and I was pleasantly surprised by the design of the ships and planetary locales, but the novelty of seeing Channing Tatum ice-skate around the air fighting aliens that pose little threat wears off after the first scene. It's like watching the Jedi take on the droids in the Star Wars Prequels. Why even bother putting them in the way if they don't pose the slightest inconvenience to our protagonists?I can appreciate science fantasy that dazzles and delights in an original universe, but eventually the tunnel-vision wears off and you realize that there is very little to keep you invested in the story. The planet Jupiter might actually be the most ironic and appropriate metaphor for this movie since - sure it's pretty to look - but then you realize you're just looking a big ball of the two most common gasses in the universe. Read the expanded version and other reviews on the Drive-In Zeppelin website
__label__4 What we have here is yet another Tarzan adaptation. This isn't the Tarzan you know from the Disney movie. No, this time we see him start out in England as a gentleman, celebrity of sorts. People all know who he his and his origin. For a moment I thought the film would be smart enough to know that we, as an audience, also know this origin story. But this ain't that kinda movie. Outside of being a "new" take on the mythical man raised by apes there isn't anything remotely new about this movie. It still tells us his origin in laziest way possible and it still follows a three act structure that we have seen a couple thousand times over.As I blankly starred at the jumbled mess I was watching on screen I couldn't think of a single thing I hated, nor a single thing I loved. This is one of those movies that just kind of exists. There isn't anything that is glaringly bad about the movie at all. There aren't moments of unintentional comedy but, what's worse, is that there aren't even moments of fun to be had.The only person that seemed to be committed at all was Sam L Jackson. Who always seems to have a good time regardless of what movie he is in. Which often makes for the only bright spot in some movies, like this one. He alone makes this films dialogue sound almost good. But that is not the case with literally every other actor. All of which just seem to be playing exaggerated versions of themselves. Either exaggeratedly bored or exaggeratedly upbeat. Neither of which works for this retelling at all. This could be due to just poor directing. David Yates looked to be more interested in putting style into his picture rather than making things natural.But his "style" only goes as far the basic sequences of chatting. Any other time the shots are either so shaky that things are incomprehensible or the camera twists and turns so much that nausea will come to all. If there was one thing that was consistently worse than anything else in movie was the special effects.The animals and environments that utilize CG are so obnoxiously noticeable, it's sometimes painful to watch. The second biggest part of the Tarzan tale is the apes and their CG is absolutely the worst. Every time they show themselves on screen resulted in me cringing into the depths of my padded seat.At the end of day I was actually glad we didn't see the story everyone knows. If we got that movie we would've had to endure more of those dreadful apes. None of which have any personality or presence in the film at all. And, worse yet, is the characters. Who are so bland that even when they talked to each they seemed bored with the others lack luster persona. What's strange about this movie is that the majority of these negatives, are met with a near immediate positive. Some of the shot compositions are great while others are very by the numbers. Every time I find myself hating a certain thing in the movie something similar would happen but it would be done much better. This left me feeling nothing after it ended. Other than the straight awful characters there isn't anything in this movie to love or hate. As each was met by something that would negate the other.
__label__4 Let me start by saying this, I am in no way attacking the story itself. I love these books and I think C.S. Lewis was an amazing writer. I hate to say this because I really wanted to like this movie but I was somewhat disappointed. I have to very much agree with zach-74's review of the movie. I don't expect books to translate directly into movies. They are different mediums. But I thought this was a mediocre attempt. Without re-hashing zach-74's review which I think is right on, there were a couple missing elements that I wished they had put in. Where is the playfulness of Aslan? His playing with the children and also with the animals that he brings back to life gives him a wonderful quality that we don't get in the movie. Another element was the suffering that takes place on the walk to the Stone Table when Aslan is to be killed. Maybe this was getting to close to the underlying Christian element in the book (It is NOT an allegory; those who say it is need to look up the definition of allegory. It has strong Christian overtones but Aslan is not an allegory for Christ...Christ practiced nonviolence, something Aslan does not). At the end, I didn't feel that Aslan was really the amazing, wise, compassionate character that he is in the book. I also missed the humorous asides and narration that are present in the book. I don't know how that could be accomplished in a movie but I think it could have been attempted. There are other movies that have narrators.As for the characters, I though the children were reasonably good but I was most disappointed in Liam Neeson as Aslan and Tilda Swinton as Jadis. I tried to be impressed by their performances but I was left lukewarm. Neeson didn't have quite the inflection that I would imagine for Aslan. I wanted to feel that I was hearing Aslan and instead I just felt like I was hearing Liam Neeson. Swinton looked good in the previews but in the movie she seemed...small...that's the best word I can think of. Jadis is supposed to be this extraordinarily tall, originally dark haired, magnetic figure. Instead she is just creepy and cruel...there's nothing that makes me understand why Edmund is so entranced with her. Those who have read the Magician's nephew know that there is a fascination with her...she exudes some quality that leads you to be enchanted with her until you discover the cruelty and hardness underneath the surface. One more thing...for those who have not read the book, that whole bit at the end with them grown up is probably a bit confusing. I feel like movies should be able to stand alone...meaning a person doesn't have to read the book to understand what's going on in the movie. Unfortunately, as much as I wanted to say this movie was perfect, I found myself often having to turn to my memories of the book to fill in the blanks in the movie that didn't quite fulfill it's potential.
__label__4 I'm beginning to wonder whether the 3D novelty is wearing out already, especially if slapped on films that think the beauty of visual effects and animation take precedence over a solid story. Everything here worked to a perfect T, from the very key component of animation, to voice casting, and sound, but what the film ultimately lacked, was a compelling narrative, and soul.The premise for success is all there, and as seen in the trailer, there's a pretty good balance of comedy, action, and homage to the 50s and 60s horror and sci-fi genres. But as the adage goes, too many cooks, in this case, screenplay writers (5 of them no less) will spoil the broth, and as a result, the trailer contains the best bits from within the movie, and everything else just plain boring, which to me too is a surprise.Directed by Rob Letterman and Conrad Vernon who brought us Shark Tale and Shrek 2 respectively, you would have thought that the combination of their strengths would result in one heck of an entertaining ride, not. It's about time animated films pull a stop to lampooning all that's pop culture. Sure it's funny for a while, but it gets on your nerves pretty much faster than you can roll your eyes at the next joke from the same joke book. While the film has plenty of monsters and well, just one alien and a giant robot which form the adversarial core, it's not about teamwork but the celebration of the strength of individuality. It's the story of a wistful bride Susan (voiced by Reese Witherspoon) whose only goal in life is to go to Paris with her husband-to-be Derek (Paul Rudd), a news weatherman whom you know is actually the jerk that he is. Cue huge falling debris onto Susan on her wedding day, and she becomes Ginormica, captured by General W.R. Monger (Kiefer Sutherland) who puts her in a top-secret pet "zoo" of sorts with his other trophies Insectosaurous, Dr. Cockroach Ph.D. (Hugh Laurie), a merman creature known as The Missing Link (Will Arnet) and the crowd favourite, the nonsensical B.O.B (Seth Rogen), a blob of jello goo with no brain who serves as the punching bag and the source of all things funny here.Speaking of funny, the laughs unfortunately don't come hard and fast. Attempts are made to be funny from the get go, but more often than not the effort fell flat on its face. It tried to emulate the Zucker brothers style of slapstick wit, and to a certain degree, when it worked it worked wonders, but you can sense an audience disconnect here when everyone fell silent most of the time. Even kids aren't tickled by the usual juvenile antics of the characters anymore, which now calls for a shift in sophistication.A whole host of stars join the lineup, such as Rainn Wilson as the villainous alien Gallaxhar, Stephen Colbert as the dim-witted President Hathaway, Amy Poehler as a computer voice and even Renee Zellweger, but despite the star power going all round in flesh out the carefully designed and crafted animated characters, ultimately everyone was one-dimensional and playing to their stereotypical tendencies. 3D-wise, there are only a handful (pardon the pun) of scenes that are specifically designed with that kind of interaction in mind, otherwise the visuals only provide that depth of view, and nothing much that will make you reach out or duck.Technically, you cannot fault Monsters vs Aliens. But essentially there's no heart in this film at all, and that proved to be its ultimate downfall that no novelty factor can redeem on its behalf.
__label__4 Because that's exactly what you get. Monsters vs. Aliens isn't a TERRIBLE movie, but it's not very good either. The plot is predictable. That's something that you should expect from movies of this type. But a certain other animation studio (I think you know the one) makes the journey itself so enjoyable, and the scope of adventure so vast that it doesn't matter. Monsters vs. Aliens feels at times like a bunch of action scenes strung together by completely unfunny jokes. There's also a message of female independence here, one that gives the film a chick-flick flair. If that sounds bad, stick around. It gets worse.This movie is just not funny. It spouts pop culture references (a dirty habit of Dreamworks animation), one of which is embarrassing to watch even by oneself. The action scenes are... well, they're Incredibles-ish. At least they try to be. They attempt to be frantic and energetic, but it doesn't really turn out that way. The movie reaches its absolute lowpoint when we're supposed to mourn a character who's come off like one big joke the whole film. This eye-rolling moments leaves us wondering why we should care.But it's not all bad. In one particular scene, the main character Susan gets imprisoned. What happens next is surprising and exciting. You just don't expect that to happen. The celebrity presence in a Dreamworks film is always a certainty. They always put flash-in-the-pan idiots in lead roles. But in their defense, at least Hugh Laurie is subdued. You don't know that it's him, and that's something these big personalities should learn to make a convincing role. Still, Monsters vs. Aliens is quite mediocre. We know where it's going within ten minutes of the film and the rest is fleshed out by action scenes and dumbed-down comedy.
__label__4 Like so many great movies that became dragged-out trilogies, the newest Mummy falls right in. Don't get me wrong, I absolutely loved the first movie. But like so many sequels, this story line becomes repetitive. The first rule of sequels is to keep the cast. Rachel and Brendan and an amazing chemistry, but Maria Bello was abysmal as the new Evelyn. Her fake British accent and melodramatic acting was inexcusable. The sets looked like they were built by 3rd graders, the effects were overwhelming, the scenes were disjointed and the cheesy one-liners got old fast. Sure, Brendan Fraser still looks hot in a tux, but he still looks 35 even though his son is in his young 20s. Overall, I was terribly disappointed. I wouldn't even bother seeing it in theaters...and please tell me this series is finally over.
__label__4 Trying to keep up with the plot of this movie is like chasing a moving train. Except even when you think you've caught up to it, you're not sure you want to get on board. As someone who went into this movie with tempered expectations thanks to negative critical reviews, yet also hope it would have some redeeming moments due to the overall positive IMDb user reviews, I can honestly say that the critics may have won on this one. Suicide Squad has a number of issues, but is not a total loss for comic book fans. The performances by the actors is not what stops this film from being a success, but it doesn't stop their characters from going in the wrong direction. 1. THE PLOT: The plot was pretty much a mess. This was a common complaint about the Batman V. Superman movie: the plot defied logic and had too much trivial sub-plot due to the amount of characters. Suicide Squad runs into a similar problem. I feel like they compensated logic to simply include scenes that would satisfy comic book fans, however it's at the sake of the film's success as a whole. Nothing is ever explained that you want explained. And somehow the movie is a confusing blend of predictable yet unclear. I found myself constantly asking "Why wouldn't you just do____?" 2. Not enough screen time for the other squad members: The rest of the squad (Other than Harley and Deadshot) are not fleshed out well. And the movie's feeble attempts to add background, dimension or complexity to the characters fails, with flashbacks and random monologues that don't elicit any sort of empathy from the viewer. I found myself easily not caring about the squad or its success at all. (Example in point 6)3. PACING: I think the attempts to flesh out the characters failed also because of the way the movie is paced. It's about 2 hours, yet feels like a 30 minute movie. Scenes jump around quickly and what they do choose to drag out (flashbacks amongst other things) may be fun to watch but is unnecessary. 3. Overuse of Music: A little more nit-picky, yet nonetheless something I noticed. Now I'm for every character having a cool theme, and soundtracks are great but... Suicide Squad utilizes loud, distracting, CONSTANT music... over dialogue, over key scenes.... music accompanies everything. Or at least that's what it felt like. Don't get me wrong sometimes it works. 4. THERE ARE NO STAKES INVOLVED WHEN YOU'RE FIGHTING MONSTERS MADE OF GOOP: I worried about the antagonists of this movie when I saw the trailers. None of the fight scenes have any real tension or meaning, because of the type of monsters they're fighting. Faceless, CGI, magical goop. 5. Uneven Dynamic of Power: This is a big issue I have with the movie. A lot of the characters seem extremely unnecessary and frankly misplaced, due to the disparity of power between all of them. In Batman V. Superman, people worried about how Batman would stand next to Superman, Wonder Woman and Apocalypse. In Suicide Squad it just felt wrong that a girl with bat and a guy with a boomerang were even within two feet of a guy who can breathe fire and a woman who can tear a hole in the sky. You simply don't believe Harley, for example, is needed in the group, which throws the logic of the film out of wack. Or that her bat can rip apart monsters, when Waller's bullets don't pierce them or Katana's sword. Not sure if this is a popular opinion, but the thought definitely occurred to me. 6. Katana : Out of all the characters in this movie, Katana's character was the biggest wasted opportunity (Boomerang is a close runner up). I'm not too familiar with her character in the comics, but I've looked up a couple strips and she's speaking English. THEY FREAKING SUBTITLE HER IN THE MOVIE. She can't even communicate with the damn squad. She could have been a character that could bond with them and be pretty cool, but she's reduced to a non-English speaking, body guard. And the film's attempts to humanize her couldn't be more ineffective. I had hoped this character would be utilized stronger and better.7. The Joker : I never thought I'd say this in my lifetime, but this film should not have included the Joker. He should have full gotten his own movie or only been in certain scenes. Jared Leto does a great job, and he's definitely a scene stealer. In fact, I could see people leaving this movie thinking he was the best part or the only redeeming quality (Which in my mind is actually Will Smith), but I did enjoy watching the Joker. But his appearances made no sense in the context of the plot and felt fairly forced and random. I was expecting complex schemes from him or maybe an interesting sub plot, but that's not what I got from the movie.8. Still Fun to Watch : The movie with all its faults is nonetheless fun to watch at times and the performances aren't bad. There are particular moments that I think are done well or include nice cinematic details. Batman v. Superman is overall a better film, but Suicide Squad is definitely more exciting. In conclusion: It was difficult to keep this review fairly spoiler free, but I think I did it. Suicide Squad may become your next "guilty pleasure bad movie" film, but I think the average viewer will definitely find the film to be subpar. I did, and I hope this review helps you.
__label__4 Great cast and a big budget couldn't save this from being an inevitable flop by critics. There was just no substance to the story. Cringe-worthy moments. Basically you watch a whole bunch of villain misfits walking down the street having moments with each other while on their little silly quest that brought them somehow together. Nice try DC.
__label__4 Although I enjoy Steve Carrell's work, Evan the Almighty, like so many other overdone films turned out to be a lot worse than I hoped it would be.This turned out to be a cheesy family movie, the kind that employ famous comedian to improve their image, but ultimately fail to deliver.The usual Carell's dorky humour is almost absent from the movie and though he did make me chuckle a few times, there was nothing hilarious about him in Evan the Almighty.His 3 kids, although were probably somehow important for a biblical character, were really quite useless in the movie and terrible actors. Even his wife, was somewhat of a third leg for such a simple storyline.Spending so much money on making a comedy was a huge mistake. Although, Carell's career might profit from this movie, there's no real reason to go see it.If only there was a little less of his family, a little more of Carell, Molly Shannon and maybe some other SNL cast, it could have actually been a lot more entertaining.4/10 for a few chuckles here and there.
__label__4 One hundred and seventy five million dollars is a hell of a lot of money to spend on even the biggest summer blockbuster. Not even Michael Bay had a budget that big for Transformers, so exactly how Universal Pictures spent that much cash making Evan Almighty is a mystery. They certainly didn't spend it on the script for one thing as the film is not so much a classic comedy as it is Christian flag waving and bar one or two quiet chuckles, you're most likely to spend the duration wondering where the budget went or why Steve Carrell felt the need to slum it in a decidedly average movie at the exact moment when his star profile has begun to rise.A sequel to the Jim Carrey comedy Bruce Almighty, this film sees former supporting character Evan Baxter (Carrell) moving up the ladder into the main player slot. The story opens with him leaving the news desk to become a public official and moving to Washington with his wife and three generic sons (slightly weird primary school moppet, spirited middle schooler and sulky teenager). Evan's bid to change the world through politics however gets a spanner in the works when God (Morgan Freeman) appears and asks him to build an Ark.In other words, it's an updating of the old Genesis story, with Evan fighting off cynicism and naysayers to build the immense boat. Unfortunately, while the premise is reasonably promising, it sadly does not provide many laughs. There's a bit of fun to be had in the early going where Evan's straight-laced MP tries to juggle the demands of public service with the unwelcome packs of animals that follow him around and a beard that resists all attempts to shave it, but as soon as he accepts his divine mission, the film takes a nosedive.From this point on, it turns into a message movie. Evan begins preaching with alarming regularity and Morgan Freeman keeps turning up to offer kind wisdom, while gently prodding his chosen in the right direction. Without Evan's resistance though, the only trace of comedy left comes in the form of a few rubbish animal-feces jokes and John Michael Higgin's role as Evan's exasperated right-hand man. Higgins may show the same rich comic potential that he did previously in Arrested Development, but his enthusiasm cannot save the sinking vessel, especially seeing as Carrell has all but placed his formidable improv skills on the back-burner.In some respects, it's slightly similar to the Passion of the Christ, but unlike Mel Gibson's movie which encouraged everyone to believe in God through blood letting and guilt tripping, Evan Almighty tries a more gentle approach. The movie simply tells us that we should have faith in God, because He has faith in us. Unfortunately, this movie is just as likely to make you laugh as the Passion is. Carrell is on autopilot, the jokes don't exist and Wanda Sykes makes a bid to become the most annoying person on the planet. It might be sweet, but somebody just tossed $175 000 000 overboard.
__label__4 This was a flick doomed from its conception. The very idea of it was lame - take a minor character from a mediocre PG-13 film, and make a complete non-sequel while changing its tone to a PG-rated family movie. I wasn't the least bit interested. Then came the trailer. Not only did it only confirm that the film would be unfunny and generic, but it also managed to give away the ENTIRE movie; and I'm not exaggerating - every moment, every plot point, every joke is told in the trailer. It's like a 3-minute Cliff's Notes version of the flick. So obviously I wasn't gonna pay to see it, but once it hit DVD, I thought sure, I'll watch it for free. Maybe Steve Carell can save it.Nope.I'm still baffled as to why he signed on for this. He must have owed someone a favor. The jokes were all so flat and obvious, and the director obviously asked him to go for very broad comedy style like the original Bruce Almighty's Jim Carrey. But it's just not funny. The studio obviously tried to cash in on the success of 40-Year-Old Virgin, complete with several of Carell's past co-stars, a reference to the flick on a theater marquee, and another musical closing credits sequence. But even the talented Carrell can't save this. His co-stars don't fare much better, with people like Morgan Freeman, Jonah Hill, and Ed Helms just wasted. Wanda Sykes isn't wasted, she's just a waste in anything she does, and her horrible one-liners and reactions just make you wish people would stop giving her work.The story itself is just predictable and lazy. It pounds you over the head with obvious foreshadowing, like Evan's disregard for the environment (drives a gas-guzzling Humvee, opts to use wood from endangered trees for his house, hates animals,...), and by the end it's just over-the-top preachy on both faith and the environment.Why the movie was made at all is puzzling enough, but I really don't understand how it reportedly became the most expensive comedy ever. The only real effects work is the presence of all the animals, and the integration of those into the scenes is some of the worst and most obvious blue/green-screen work I've ever seen. Maybe the rental of the live animals on set cost a fortune. Who knows. But whatever it was that cost them so much, it didn't translate to quality, that's for sure. But hey, it wasn't the worst film of the year by far. There's still plenty of worse duds like Norbit and Death Proof.
__label__4 Yep, you can take your kids to watch this film, or if you're an average American - you're gonna like it. To me it's all boredom and classical neo-American brainwashing for brainwashed generation to have some light fun, without using too much brains. Pot-heads should like it, too - very light on synapses.I think film industry could make do very well without such films. I gave it 4 out of pity.Sorry if I offended someone, but I'm tired of these "blockbusters" for kids.Cheers!
__label__4 When a movie critic I trust, gives a good review to a movie, I expect the movie to be good, this wasn't the case with "The Jungle Book." This movie had such a strange story, not like Donnie Darko strange, but the bad type of strange. The main character's actor is hilariously bad, he really feels like an actor, not the character he is portraying. The biggest problem in this movie is definitely the villain, he completely ruins this movie. The tiger only hates the main character because he's a human, and is willing to kill to get him out of the jungle. If that sounds like a good character to you, I think you would think the characters in "Pulp Fiction" are god's gift to humanity. I also never understood what was happening, probably because it was so boring I didn't pay attention, but I think it's because things just happen, without reason, it might be fun for little kids, but not for people who are mature enough to see the problems with the plot. The only reason you'd enjoy this movie is nostalgia. Don't waste your money on this movie, I don't support pirating, but that really seems like the better option.
__label__4 In Iron Man 2, Tony Stark's ego swells to enormous levels. Written as some kind of Steve Jobs meets Richard Branson amalgam in a superhero costume, Robert Downey's wise-ass treatment of the character (still at tangents to what he represents in the original comics) seems self absorbed and cheeky. How could anyone find him likable as a hero? But beyond all of this is a simple fact, this sequel fails to do what every sequel must i.e. expand on the original and take the premise into uncharted territory.Stripped down in this second outing to its bare essentials - one liners and scant cartoonish action - the films defects (glaringly obvious even in the first) conspicuously swell and rise to the surface. The story puts Stark in mortal danger; the miniature arc reactor that keeps him alive is now poisoning his body, discharging lethal toxins that weaken him and leave limited time to find a cure. Amidst this he finds himself embroiled in a wrangle with the US government over the ownership of the Iron Man armour and what it represents (weapon or instrument of peace). If all of this weren't enough, he is threatened by the random appearance of Mickey Rourke's Ivan Vanko, who as Whiplash thumps Start and his Iron Man armour in the movies best scene, set in an over-crowded Monaco racetrack.Once the initial dust has settled though, the film turns into a self absorbed, faux character study. This superhero Bucket List setup, where our hero may be dying and therefore disregards all concerns about his image and worldly perception, does not make for good entertainment. Even with all its flaws, the original film never sank to a level where it didn't amuse us, whether it was in exploring (but also exploiting) the socio-political landscape of the war on terror or Stark's guilt-stricken conscience, bruised by the extent of his organizations exploits. Because director Jon Favreau is no Sam Raimi, even his attempts at parodying the character (ala Spiderman 3) in self deprecation mode – with Tony Start dancing around in full armour on his birthday - feels embarrassingly unfunny. For action junkies, the cluttered night time scenes with Stark and Jim Rhodes (underwhelming Don Cheadle in armour as War Machine) lack the aerial panache of Iron Man fighting it out with Jet Fighters from the original.The film makes one fact glaringly obvious; comic book movies are not comic books themselves, they are movies and are expected to function in ways that films do. That Iron Man 2 doesn't is a failure that stems out of its short-sightedness to connect itself to something bigger and greater. Intended as a tie in to the upcoming, proposed (and so far non- existent) Avengers movie, it instead becomes filler for it. The movies tone implies it is a setup for the teams ultimate formation, and the blink and miss appearance of Captain America's shield and Thor's hammer, intended to provide drug like highs in audiences viewing pleasure, only confirms this observation. This is not a film but bait for a much bigger commercial franchise on the horizon and depending on how you see it, you will either enjoy it or feel duped by it.
__label__4 The trailers were great, they got me interested, had me excited to finally see Snow White And The Huntsman but my excitement quickly turned to disappointment. The movie starts off well showing you how the Queen came to power and did a good job of introducing her to the audience but it fell apart soon after that.The acting was very stiff throughout the film, I believe Kristen Stewart was miscast for the part of Snow White, she doesn't have the acting chops to play even a semi serious role like this one. She should stick to the Twilight series.The pacing of the film also just felt off. Their are a lot of anti climatic scenes such as the ending, it just leaves you wanting more or wondering what they could of done to make this a better movie.Dialogue throughout the movie was pretty bad as well, people in my theater only laughed once or twice and that was during a scene that wasn't even intended to be funny.Most critics praised Therons performance, but she really just whined the entire time and was over the top, she didn't really deliver, but she was the best part of the film.4/10
__label__4 With the release of movie adaptations of classics like Snow White and Jack and the beanstalk, both of which I was highly entertained and thought it was simply amazing this movie was a sad let down. Pros: Visually stunning. Angelina Jolie's performance was spot on with the most evil of classical villains we always knew. Cons: The most beautiful princess Aurora looks like the girl next door. Why does Hollywood try to do that is beyond me. Mary Jane Watson (Spidermans love interest) is supposed to be a beautiful actress and a model. But again the movie portrays a girl next door look in ultimate Spiderman. Elle Fannig's acting was not strong and in the end not memorable in the least. It felt like she was there for the sake of being there.Sharlto Copley acting left a lot to be desired. Was he supposed to portray a loving farther and husband driven mad or a power hungry king driven insane by his overwhelming need to destroy the one creature that he could not bring himself to kill when he had the chance? If he was supposed to potray caring scenes it never really showed. ______________ ______________The King is portrayed as an evil man who begged for his daughters life and could have easily returned maleficent's wings but instead chose not to for reasons which are beyond anyones understanding. This is the start of where the movie just becomes a drag. Maleficent curses the child to die in the original storyline and this is the most important part in the story because of which the 3rd fairy who did not bestow a gift alters the curse by making them sleep instead of death. This part is totally lost in the movie. Watching a bunch of incompetent fairies nearly almost kill a child before the curse can take effect is as much a mystery as why maleficent would watch over the child and save it. Why the king would entrust his child to faeries whom he dislikes is also as much a mystery as why he would not send a nurse maid to care for his only child. The worst part of the movie is being subjected to watch the Princess grow to 16 years old and marvel at the beautiful fairies (it feels like pointless fillers). Also when the princess realizes whats going on one day before her birthday, the 3 incompetent fairies again forget to mention about what happened to Maleficents wings. The good fairies were not incompetent, just funny in the original story and smart enough to hide away the princess for 16 years. Why they made them look so incompetent and negligent is beyond me.Once you get over the visuals you will realize its nothing more than a chick flick geared at young children (visuals) and adults who are romantically inclined. The most evil Disney villain for over 50 years reduced to nothing more than a scorned women out to seek revenge for the betrayal. A loving father reduced to nothing more than a mad evil greed driven man who plunges himself into insanity with a overwhelming urge to kill maleficent despite his daughter being returned safe and well. Many times during the movie I found myself thinking about what work I have the next day or what needs to be done. This is something I have never experienced when sitting and watching a movie on big screen completely immersed in the plot. This is a far cry from Snow White and the Huntsman which was really good barring Kristen Stewart's emo acting (emotionless) drawn from twilight.
__label__4 Sleeping Beauty is indeed a very old story, one that was originally created by the Brothers Grimm. This story on the other hand is one that tries to give a new take on the traditional telling of Sleeping Beauty. Does it succeed? You can decide...I, on the other hand, was left very confused on what this story was trying to accomplish. I completely understand the angle of not needing to have the young prince coming in and saving the day, but to have the villain (or a least the villain from the Disney classic version of the film)be the hero seems kind of odd to me. If she isn't at all bad, which is what this film is trying to say, then what is she. In this fairy tale world, what is her purpose then? This very quickly came off as a female empowerment film in practically every aspect of the story. She doesn't need a man to save her at the end. Maleficent doesn't need the love a man to raise Aurora, this motherless child. All Aurora really needed was the unconditional, love of another women, like Maleficent. Men are the real bad guys right? That's why they're called "Bad guys" not "Bad Women". Anyway, I digress, so is this story trying dismiss the original story of Sleeping Beauty? Was there something wrong with the original story that this new telling needed to correct? Is this the new direction Disney wants to go down? The Wicked Step-mother was really just a product of her husband and she has learned that from seeing Cinderella grow up to become a great. Let's see the perspective of the hunters from Bambi to show the family that they were planning on feeding with the deers.What I'm trying to say is that I don't know what this story is trying to accomplish by being retold in this manner. The only reason I can figure out is that Disney is doing everything humanly possible to make sure their image is as squeaky clean as possible. By human two POV's of their stories, there is no way that they can be described as dark in any way. This is very problematic to me in a very important way. A film like this makes it seem like, all evil needs to be given a chance explain itself. This is confusing. Their needs to be an evil in the story, especially for a fairy tale such as this one. Evil must exist to realize there is a battle between good and evil. the point is completely taken away when you show that the side that was evil wasn't actually evil at all. I mean she did one evil thing in the movie and immediately regretted it. In this sense, we could say that every villain can be redone as long as they felt really bad about it afterwords.You might notice that I didn't mention the acting or the visual effects. That's because the story seemed so overwhelmingly problematic that it felt wasted on such an awful story. I'm sure I'll get flack for having these feelings towards the film but whatever. If you enjoyed it then congratulations, you did something I couldn't do.
__label__4 I wonder why this movie has such a high rating. This tricked me into going to the theater to watch it. So, a virus kills most people on earth. At the same time the apes evolve and become intelligent. Of course this has to happen over generations and not just by the passing of time in the same individuals, but let's say it happened. And so the plot holes begin:All the human survivors are gathered in one building in the middle of San Fransisco. What are they eating? Do they grow the earth? -NoDo they raise livestock? -No.Are they near a spring or well to have fresh running water? -No.Are they dressed in animal skins or primitive hand made clothes? -No, they use 10 or 15 year old clothes and look great.So all these people together produce a lot of waste, what happens to it? -Nothing, probably use the sewers which are capable of functioning forever without any maintenance of any kind. Probably the writers imagined the survivors using the toilet and flushing and the water appearing magically from taps, showers and toilets...What do they really need? -Power to charge the i-Pad to see the old photos. Of course they cannot go to the nearest refinery or gas depot and fill a tanker truck, but they risk their lives going to the mountains against angry intelligent apes, because the radio uses a lot of power and the nuclear plant doesn't work any more. Makes perfect sense.And of course when they repair the dam the power magically transfers to the city, tenths of miles far, because of course poles do not fall down and cables don't cut after 10 or 15 years without maintenance just like the sewers.The apes can all talk, and the villain ape has English accent. They prefer to use sign language though because a language which is useless in the dark or even just when the other person is not looking at you is superior to a spoken language.And which is the best way to test guns? By shooting them, because 10-15 years old or older guns with out any kind of maintenance never blow up in your face when you try to shoot them.And then the apes learn to use the guns and they shoot literally thousands of rounds without ever reloading. No need to reload in wonderland... I, personally had one year of training for my military service, and I am still not sure how to use a weapon I was not trained with but hey I m not an ape!A lot more stupidity from the writers and finally, the human warns the apes that the army is coming to wipe them out, but the ape leader which through the entire movie is depicted as intelligent, moderate and cautious does not order to hide in the woods. Instead he stays in the city waiting for the army.The characters are a joke, especially the bad guys, and generally don't spend any money on this if you are over 16 years old. Don't watch it altogether if you are under 16 years old because it is full of stupid and meaningless violence...
__label__4 The score is terrific, the scenery is gorgeous, the acting is mostly pretty good, and the story is... nonsensical.There are two story timelines. The opening story timeline is set in the fairly near future, sometime later in the 21st century, with what appear to be Americans. But we spend very little time there. The main story timeline is 18th century India.The backdrop of the main storyline, in India in 1778, was interesting and realistic, except that the British East India Company leaders were all hopelessly one-dimensional villains. The lead roles were well-played, the lead characters were sympathetic, and the story was drew me in.But when you tell a great, big, long story, it ought to have a point. It ought to have something to do with the climax. This one left me wondering, "what was the point of all that?"Plus, there was almost no meaningful connection between the two timelines. It just didn't make sense.And the story made a promise that it didn't keep. At the beginning, we see an interesting artifact -- a ring -- in the wreck of a long- sunken ship. Someone with the initials "D.E." must have greatly valued it, we're told, because he or she drowned while clinging to the purse which contained that ring.So, who was D.E., we wonder, and what was his story? The next scene takes us back in time, to 18th century India, and we settle back expecting to learn the story of D.E. and the ring. But we never do.We do, indeed, hear a great long story -- but we never find out about D.E. and the ring, or how it got onto that shipwreck. That was very annoying.And what's with the two names for this movie, anyhow? Is it called "The Lovers" or "Singularity?"As Maxwell Smart would say, "missed it by THAT much." I'll be generous and give it a 4, mainly just because I liked the music.
__label__4 Sadly, all the tragedy and drama in this 2015 movie did not really manage to escape the screen and really make me feel involved. "The Lovers" is Roland Joffé's newest work and I have to say I really enjoyed his "Killing Fields" and you may also have heard of or seen his film "The Mission". It's his first film in 4 years, but he turns 70 this year, so no surprise he's a bit on the slow side now, especially as he also wrote the script for "The Lovers" and it is only the third time in his long career that he has done so.The central character is played by Josh Hartnett, once a big rising star, but by now disappeared a bit. Here he returns to the big screen and I saw he is also currently playing in the successful television series "Penny Dreadful". I've never been too big on him in the past, but here he is okay and his performance is certainly not one of the major flaws of this movie. Tamsin Egerton is one of Britain's rising stars, but this film will probably not propel her career any higher right now. It's basically a film about the clash of two worlds: on the one side we have marine scientists today and on the other we have ancient India. The cinematography and costumes are fine, but story-wise I never felt a really well-done significant connection between these two at any point during these 110 minutes. That's why I cannot recommend this film. If you are interested in the topic, I suggest taking a look at Ben Kingsley's "The Physician" from 2013. It's Persia ad not India, but I thought this was very well done.
__label__4 TIME TRAVELLER is an unusual time travel type movie starring Josh Hartnett, ill at ease in a role which requires him to put on a British accent. The bizarre thing about this is that the present day story is merely a framing device that feels like it gets in the way of the main tale, a typical historical romance set in 18th century India. I think a straight-up historical story would have worked a lot better. As usual, the film suffers from heavy-handed scripting, presenting stereotypical British soldiers plundering their way through the Indian subcontinent and asking us to believe in a fierce warrior-woman who's more than a match for her male counterparts (yeah, right). The director isn't too bad but the story never goes very far, making this a slight effort.
__label__4 Nothing expected and still not good enough. Choreography was excellent and also the effects (fox not included). But oh my god, did this Movie suck. 3D usage for what? Didn't see anything in 3D. Just one scene.Reeves also as poor as he ever was. But, the guy who played Oishi (don't remember his name, think it was Watanabe) was awesome. Tagawa is getting old, but is still good. It seems like, they wanted to much in just two hours. If it would be 3 hours, it could have been better. It's seems like a bit to fast. The whole scenes with those demons in the Forest could be a little longer, bit it was OK. Only those pirate bay didn't last long, which is really sad, 'cause the Location looked awesome.4/10 for good Effects, great Choreography, poor Reeves, good supporting roles and a story, which is...well say, its OK.
__label__4 I remember a time when people would flock to the cinemas when a new Keanu Reeves movie came along, but these days he just does not seem to have the same pulling power as he did in the days of The Matrix and Point Break. I first became familiar with Reeves with the two Bill and Ted movies, which are still some of my all time favourite films, but these days, and this movie is a prime example, he seems to have just fallen flat. In a way I really wanted to like this movie, and for a while I was caught up in it, but as it moved along, and it wasn't slow by any means, my interest simply began to wane.47 Ronin is an adaptation of a Japanese tale of 47 Ronin whose master was killed by treachery and they then spent two years plotting their revenge. When they had succeeded the emperor chose, instead of executing them like common criminals, to allow them to die an honourable death by committing sepuku. While I do appreciate Asian stories (and I am really interested in going and seeing The Monkey King on Friday, if it is still showing at Melbourne Central), I am finding some of these Western adaptations to, in a way, destroy the mystique that seems to fill them.It is not that all Hollywood adaptation of Asian stories are bad, for instance the Forbidden Kingdom is still an awesome movie, which I have now seen three times, and have put the DVD in my 'to keep collection' as opposed to my 'get rid of before DVDs become obsolete' collection (though with the rate that I am moving through them they will probably become obsolete before I am able to get rid of them all, but that is another story). I remember that a major criticism of Cruise's Last Samurai was that it in effect Westernised a Japanese story, and in many cases this film does the same.It is not that the monsters and the magic in the film are necessarily Westernised. The creators do make an attempt to give an oriental feel to the film, and I did try to suspend my disbelief in relation to the pirate haven that the visited, and the fact that a major character is a half Japanese mongrel, but in many cases it really pushed the limits of my ability to accept it. The problem with Japanese tales, especially introducing Western elements to them, is that the Japanese society was closed society up until the middle of the 19th century when the Americans sailed a warship into Tokyo harbour and told them to open up or else (from which we get the term 'Gunship diplomacy'). As such, I find it very difficult to accept a Japanese story with Western elements thrown into it. However, for some reason, I do find that the Chinese stories work a little better.Oh, the other thing that undermined my ability to suspend my disbelief is that pretty much all of the crew seemed to be American in origin, and thus it appeared to be very much an American film, made by Americans, using Asian actors to give it some form of Oriental appearance (and I would not be surprised if it turns out that the Asian actors are actually Chinese as opposed to Japanese).
__label__4 It's sad to watch a fall from greatness and that's what can best be described for the 'Shrek' films. The series started out strong with the first two movies and began to stumble into routine with the third. Now all the novelty and energy is gone and with 'Shrek Ever After' the audience gets a predictable, by-the-numbers, formula movie.I think the main problem has to do with the fact that Shrek, Donkey, Fiona and Puss have lost all of the chemistry that made the earlier movies fun. The comfort in their interactions drains all of the opening scenes of life. The main crisis in this film is also a little weak: Shrek has grown tired of his life as a celebrity ogre (this plot point is handled awkwardly in the opening scenes) and makes a deal with Rumplestilskin to go back to when he was feared by others. You know the movie's in trouble when this "It's a Wonderful Life" scenario is inserted to try to breathe some novelty into Shrek's story.This wouldn't be a problem if the movie had fun with this situation. Sadly, it focuses more on action scenes to show off the 3-D effects rather than focusing on the alternate realities of the characters. There is an extended scene of Shrek flying a witches broom to escape from Rumplestilskin's castle, which is cool, but really exist for no other purpose than to give the audience a roller-coaster simulation. The same can be said for a drawn out flying dragon scene in the beginning of the film as well.This movie also has less of the pop culture references that made the other films in the series enjoyable for adults as well as kids. The first film, in particular, seemed to be taking a lot of jabs at Disney, now it seems like Dreamworks is less hostile towards their competitors. Ultimately, The film wastes opportunities to have fun not just with the series regulars but also with the new characters: the Pied Piper, Rumplestilskin, the witches and all the other ogres. This was disappointing way to say goodbye to Shrek:(
__label__4 Shrek has gone down a cult film character... so has Donkey, Fiona and Puss in Boots, thanks to the film that these characters became such a craze. Shrek was awesome, Sherk 2 was legendary, but the last one before this one 'Shrek The Third' was a yawn. Now comes 'Shrek Forever After', which ends the Shrek series... well if there is one more left, then I guess I won't be looking forward to it! The problem with 'Shrek The Third' and 'Shrek Forever After' are it's script. The writing is bland, you except a lot from Shrek, due to the wholesome entertainment we've witnessed before. The Final Chapter has it's share of funny and light moments, but they are far and between! What saves this disappointment is it's characters. Myers as Shrek is as good as ever! Diaz gives Fiona the voice she needs. Donkey and Puss-In Boots voiced by Icons like Murphy and Banderas are the life of the show. They are funny and spot-on. Walt Dohrn as the evil-head Rumplestilskin is just about okay.All n all, It's truly time to say Shrek and his friends Good-Bye. Thanks for the entertainment you gave us in the first 2 flicks, now you guys are getting wasted in poor scripts. So, Have a nice time at Far Far Away!
__label__4 If this sequel had appeared in 1997 or 98, it would have been averagely interesting. But in the past twenty years hence, the audience has had the delight to savor so many other much more superior movies of its genre (which were ironically spawned by the first Independence Day's success) - something which the direction of this movie did not bother to account for, hence we are in for a very badly dated why-bother sci-fi flick. The original was passably good for its time, and this sequel is but almost a poor spoof of itself.Everything from the plot to the mundane cheesy dialogue, un-laughable jokes, and empty characters, and OK-ish CGI  all cookie-cutter mishmash from other passé movies. Situations make no sense, neither do the illogical reaction of the characters, including our supposedly 'super-intelligent' big mother-monster chasing after a school bus for no real reason apart from the fact its there, like a playful kitten after a spot of light on the floor. And of course the 'saviour' alienship with all its bombastic intellect and scientific pizazz comes right up face-on to be blown to smithereens without doing the obvious thing of announcing the altruistic reason for its presence  when apparently it does speak English at that too! Anyway, so so so many nonsensical senseless situations here, don't even bother to care two hoots after a while.None of the characters nor actors have any lasting impression nor charisma  and the two 'romantic' couples . totally plastic with inert chemistry. I can almost hear Jeff Goldblum whispering to Judd Hirsch, "Geez, this movie is just so bad we need to wind-up our exaggerated gestures and jaw-drops to save it!" The original TV Star Trek would be more interesting.
__label__4 I recently re-watched the first film and was surprised at how robust its shelf life is. Again, it is undeniably cheesy and jingoistic, but done suitably well, I can have a ball with any material. In "Independence Day: Resurgence", set and finally released 20 years after the events of the first film, the aliens get medieval on us with an even bigger mothership.There's a lot of heroics here by many a character who do their equal part to stop this new alien menace, having already made a stuffed calzone of the Earth's crust comprising from London all the way to Singapore. There's also a refreshingly silly undertone which sets it apart from the grim and serious blockbusters of today, and with added Jeff Goldblum and Judd Hirsch who return as the Levinsons, and "Star Trek" alumnus Brent Spiner as the eccentric Dr. Okun, Emmerich and his co-writers, including returning scribe Dean Devlin, certainly did not skimp out on the comic silliness.Unfortunately, that is where the similarities end. The sins of sequelitis has been bestowed upon this sequel to his 1996 smash hit, and Emmerich is to blame, either for his laziness to phone it in out of frustration to fulfill the fans; or bucking in to studio demand to condense the film into a mere 2 hours. Sure, lots of things happen in the film, including stuff and cities going kablooey in high style, and high-tech aerial dogfights to give "Star Wars" a run for its money. Even Liam Hemsworth as the new hero Jake Morrison did not annoy me as much as I expected, though Hemsworth is still a far cry from Will Smith's "Elvis has left the building!" persona.However, as slick as the modern CGI is, giving a sleeker look to the tech shown in the original film, it never quite gels together as a cohesive film - no momentum, no suspense, no catharsis when it does end. Bill Pullman's returning ex-President Thomas Whitmore is utterly wasted, as per his daughter Patricia (Maika Monroe, not doing her rep from "It Follows" any favours). It is not their fault; I feel that there is a lot of footage Emmerich was forced to excise by the Fox bigwigs to get more butts into cinema seats. Perhaps an extra half- hour of more cataclysmic destruction and character motives, but I may be asking for a bit too much at this point.Things are very rushed indeed, with no payoff even when there's lots of characters doing their fair share to save the day. Goldblum and Hirsch, however, are still naturals, and they steal every scene they're in, and lift the movie up from near tediousness. Nevertheless, the special effects are fantastic, and are most certainly worth the price of admission alone.It's kind of sad. This new one promotes global equality, with a female U.S. President (Sela Ward) celebrating world peace, and with everyone from across the globe giving it their all to kick E.T.'s ass. The action is fine and dandy without any of those annoying shaky-cam and quick-cut edits. And yet, the film suffers from awkward pacing, rushed dynamics, and especially a lack of cities exploding into fireballs. It even has sequel-teasing in the laziest manner possible in its final moments.To quote Marvin the Martian, "Where's the kaboom? There's supposed to be an Earth-Shattering Kaboom!"
__label__4 Have just returned after a triple show of T1 + T2 + T3. An excellent way in which to spend a rainy day!Before the films my three friends and I were looking very much forward to re-see T1 + T2 on a big screen. As for T3 we didn't expect too much.
While the copies of T1 + T2 were slightly dated, to say the least, both films were absolutely superb, also despite the fact that the effects in T1 were quite primitive compared to today. Nevertheless, T1 remained our favorite not the least because of its very stringent and no-nonsense non-moralistic narrative. T2 was also strong in this aspect, though there were slightly more plot holes and a little too much sentimentality, something which unfortunately plagues many American films. Nonetheless T2 is also great.Then came T3 ... well, a film taste is very individual. Therefore you, dear reader, should not be deterred from going to see this film, despite the fact that my three friends and I all couldn't care less about it.Why didn't we like it? Well, surprisingly we were all in agreement about the lack-of-Cameron-touch as one of the worst failings of the film. The new director does not have the ability to time scenes, events, statement and the narrative anywhere near the brilliant level of Cameron.
Therefore the new director tries to make up for this deficiency in making the car chases and the explosions bigger, the new enemy T-X more deadly, and destruction more extreme. But it all lacks energy, soul and credibility. The narrative is messy and coincidental, as if the director thinks "now it will be nice to have this scene from a previous Terminator film included and just beefed up" or "let's try this - it might be funny". This unfortunately lets the actors down, leaving them with empty hulls and we couldn't care less if they die or live. This, incidentally, is comparable to the Matrix II and the new Star Wars films. The director believes that he has a good film if he/she can include some cool effects. Doesn't work, though! Furthermore, the scenes lack anything that might even remotely draw the audience into the film. While you can feel the anguish of the humans and the one-mindedness of the robots in the earlier films, this piece of junk left my friends and I with the feeling of "who cares!" The first and second Hellraiser movies were absolutely splendid. However, what followed should not ever be mentioned anywhere - especially number three sucked big time and should never bee seen by anybody. Terminator 3 is not so bad that it shouldn't be seen, though. However, it is highly advisable that you lower any expectations - and the lower them again. Then you might enjoy this film. Alternatively wait for the cheap version of the DVD. Finally, if the studio really wants to make a T4, which is highly suggested in T3, then they better get Cameron back on the job. Otherwise they will have just another silly action flick, with no real innovation or originality on their hands, like a gazillion other action flicks from Hollywood - because this is what they have with T3. So unless they rediscover the respect they owe to the great old Terminator-films : Who cares!
__label__4 The plot was predictable. The characters aren't original. I guess the younger crowd and die hard fans will probably like it but as an avid movie fan Guardians kind of disappointed me. Acting was kind of terrible too. Bautista played Drax as if Drax was TRYING to sound intelligent. He couldn't pull off the smart brute. Zoe tried too hard to be bad a$$ and it wasn't natural. The Collector... Don't get me started... What reason was there for The Collector to even open and show anybody the Infinity Stone? It's a super powerful object that he knew was very powerful, why show Thanos' daughter or the outlaw? The bad guys were the worst, so campy. Ronin reminded me of a pro wrestler during an interview. Like Ultimate Warrior on a rant. Only good acting came from Thanos and Rocket. Yep, the CGIs. The final battle was whack. The ships lined up to form a net to stop the super ship and the good guy ships were below shooting bad guy ships who we're dive bombing the city. The worst was when they tried to replicate that scene in Avengers when Hulk was slamming Loki around but instead it was Groot shooting his tendrils through a bunch of bad guys and skewering them then slamming them unnecessarily back and forth against walls. The ending was so cheesy when John C Reiley was all sappy about his wife and kid being saved who they showed in the end as a woman and her daughter who earlier was part of a scene where they were almost crushed. Booooring.... The movie wasn't terrible but after reading the super reviews on IMDb, I had to say something.
__label__4 So , I was yesterday to see this "big" movie, which has a rating of 8.7, close to "The lord of the rings" movies, the same as "Matrix" or "Inception" and even better than "Seven" or "Usual suspects". It should be good right? Doesn't matter that Marvel made only crap movies, most of them anyway, with a few exceptions, some of the first Spiderman movies and some X-men movies, maybe they nailed it this time.So, the movie starts and after the first scenes, we see our hero on an abandoned planet, dancing as he goes to collect the item he came for. He is not thinking that while he is listening music at his headset, someone may be nearby. Anyway, he got what he came for, and the scene is very similar to the one in Indiana Jones. No surprise, this entire movie is a rip -off of other movies, you have you hero which is a smuggler and becomes one of the good guys (Star wars), you have a pair, a raccoon and a tree, only the raccoon understands the tree (Star wars), again, our hero out of the nowhere falls in love with the female(again.... Star wars), only in Star Wars, the process was more real and more fun. Also, like other Marvel movies, the characters do illogical actions in the most important moments. Gomora after she fights to the death with her sister trying to cut the power, tries to save her when her sister was holding on the edge of the ship, while Peter Quill and the others were waiting for Gomora to cut the damn power. Another stupid moment was when Ronan, at last he lands, but he doesn't destroy the planet, the thing he wanted the most to do, no, he looks at our hero dancing... speechless... And how did Drax survived when he and Ronan are hit by a ship at full speed, piloted by raccoon?So, Guardians of the galaxy is a movie full of meaningless special effects, explosions after explosions, characters that are poorly written, actors that don't act very well, a poor script and ideas borrowed from other movies.Conclusion, another boring movie by Marvel, highly over rated, I don't know how, I think Marvel fans are overzealous or the people are just getting dumber day by day.You wanna see a good sci-fi movie, watch any of the Star Wars movies.
__label__4 This film really let me down.I didn't expect a great film but I expected something that was at least 'OK'. How wrong I was. I honestly can't understand the hype. 'Intelligent' they say?? What sort of intelligent film has to have it's protagonists explain what is happening continuously throughout the film?? Now Memento, that was a good film. And, I suppose, 'intelligent'. But by intelligent, I mean something that pushes boundaries of the viewer's understanding. I don't mean intelligent as in 1) able to do simple arithmetic, 2) develop reading and writing skills and 3) generally being one notch above a dolphin.OK, let's make a start shall we? Firstly, one of the greatest literary and cinematic arts is the use of metaphor. This film has none. One thing the film is full of is too much explanatory dialogue (not to mention pre-teen psychology - the father figure relationship in the subconscious). For example, in the first Matrix film, the viewer understands the profundity of what is being delivered through metaphor (a feature that the subsequent Matrix films sadly missed). In this film here, everything is painstakingly explained. To me, this speaks volumes.Secondly, great actors, yes. BUT ALL miscast and given appalling dialogue in an appalling script. I mean, Ellen Page was great in Juno, but here she comes out with painfully mechanical lines in the same way that Joseph Gordon-Levitt also does. In the same way that every character does. They ALL speak the same way and we are no better understanding one character by the end of the film than we were when they first appeared.Thirdly, logic. Philosophy. Call it what you want. Why was Ariadne chosen to become the architect? What does she actually DO??And Ken Watanabe. Why is he alive after dying on the third or fourth level 'down' in the subconscious after the film so adamantly stresses the dangers of dying in the 'dream'? How can he wake up on the plane?? Why, in fact, is there that scene at the start of the film where he appears old and which features the safe and the confidential papers Leonardo De Caprio finds.Why does Leonardo De Caprio constantly have to furrow his brow? Oh, yes, it's a vain attempt to look mean and manly because the poor man still has, unfortunately for him, such a baby face.Why is Cillian Murphy's character chosen to be their means of helping LDC's character get back to his kids? And isn't it convenient to have a dream sequence in a blockbuster that resembles a James Bond film snow-covered chase scene? Why does the film have to go on for two and a half hours instead of one and a half? And most importantly, if Leonardo De Caprio's character is so severely screwed up about his wife why, o why does he have to be the main character in this film? Couldn't the team work with someone more well-balanced?? Can he in fact be any use to his kids if he eventually finds them???Nonsense nonsense nonsense. Big pile of nonsensical psycho-babble. And yes, where else but America???
__label__4 "All great stories deserve a little embellishment." So says Gandalf the Grey (Ian McKellen) in the most telling line in The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey, Peter Jackson's return to the world of JRR Tolkien. It's a line that clearly outlines Jackson and his co-writers' intentions, yet it comes off as a veiled apology, as if the film-making team knew that what they have created is going to be problematic for die-hard Middle Earth fans. Sadly, Jackson's new film doesn't come close to silencing the skeptics like his Lord of the Rings films did, and is actually more ill-conceived than expected.Things that do work well for the most part in The Hobbit are sequences that come directly from the source novel. Iconic scenes, such as the arrival of the dwarfs at Bag End or the encounter with the trolls are handled pretty well, despite being padded out to unnecessary lengths with lame gags and pointless alteration of the original events in the book. Juggling such a massive primary cast is obviously a challenge, and as such the film's best moments involve only one or two characters, with Bilbo's (Martin Freeman) meeting of Gollum (Andy Serkis) and the finding of the ring being a particular stand-out sequence, the only one that seemed like it could have used more time.However, all of the good work that Jackson & Co do with the direct source material is swamped by the content they felt they had to develop themselves. The great achievement of the LOTR films is how they managed to distill the huge source novels to their most important story beats, only hinting at most of the wider story in a way that brought incredible richness to the world in which they take place. With The Hobbit though, Jackson only has a 300 page novel to start with, and the decision to make three lengthy films, I assume to parallel the first trilogy, is precisely why this first film doesn't work.The Hobbit should be allowed to stand alone as its own film, but it is structured in such a way, almost identically to the first LOTR entry The Fellowship of the Ring, that it's all but impossible not to compare them. As a side-effect, the much lighter tone will be jarring for a lot of established franchise fans, the very people the film seems to be primarily aimed at. The chase sequence in the goblin tunnels for example is little more than an updated version of the Moria scenes from LOTR. It's exciting enough, but much of the action feels in service of the film- making technology on display rather than the story, and as such none of the stakes of the earlier films are built here.Where the LOTR films had to keep moving at such a pace to fit everything in, The Hobbit dwells on unnecessary moments which had only the briefest of mentions in the novel to reach its 2 hour 49 minute runtime. Most damaging are the call backs linking the previous trilogy, setting up what is likely to be an almost completely new story bridge between the two trilogies in the third film due in 2014. There is absolutely no reason for Frodo (Elijah Wood), Saruman (Christopher Lee), and Galadriel (Cate Blanchett) to appear in this story, yet here they are, taking us away from a perfectly good narrative about a quest to fight a dragon. It reeks of cynical franchise care, and arguably disrespectful to the carefully crafted world that Tolkien created.There's a good movie somewhere in The Hobbit, and had Jackson shown more restraint we might have seen it. The film could easily lose at least 45 minutes, but it feels as if director feels so beholden to his previous work that he needs to deliver an epic on the scale of LOTR. But that's not what this book is, and we're left with an uneasy balance - the lighter tone to distinguish this as a separate story but a strict adherence to the LOTR structure - but ultimately doesn't fulfill either side.tinribs27.wordpress.com
__label__4 This is the first of three films Peter Jackson has made to adapt J.R.R. Tolkien's prequel to Lord of the Rings. An elderly Bilbo Baggins writes to Frodo about the land of Erebor, where the Dwarf King Thror lost his land and prosperity to the dragon Smaug. Bilbo then recalls the earlier years of his life (played by Martin Freeman), where he's timid and lost his sense of adventure. Bilbo's complacency is questioned by the wizard Gandalf (Ian McKellen), who secretly arranges for a meeting to be held in the hobbit's house. One evening Bilbo is interrupted by thirteen dwarfs who invite themselves inside. He's told these dwarfs are in search of a home but need a burglar who can accompany them to the mountain where Smaug is and take back their land and treasure. Initially reluctant, Bilbo trails after the unit but this does little to impress Thorin (Richard Armitage), the dwarf leader and grandson of Thror, who doubts the hobbit's commitment. Even without reading the novel The Hobbit, nothing erases the feeling while watching An Unexpected Journey that this is a deliberately inflated work of fanfare, with eyes drawn acutely towards the box office. Good cinema is defined by economics and how efficiently a story can be told with images. Peter Jackson demonstrated this skill with his Rings trilogy, gracefully balancing multiple narrative threads and characters, and ensuring each one possessed an appropriate amount of emotional weight.Why then has he chosen to make a soulless, linear action movie, extravagantly scaled, but so insubstantial that it never justifies itself as the start of a trilogy? Penned by no less than four writers, including Jackson, this would have been more satisfying as one film with richer themes and selective action. Instead, a novel of barely 300 pages long is extended to nearly three hours, if only to showcase boring battle scenes and superfluous new technology, falsely touted as innovative. The excess of Jackson's passion stems from his fascination with geek culture. Since the inception of his career in the 1980s, making low budget horror films, he has been concerned with subjects like the undead and the uncanny. His recent films have been criticised for being overly dependent on special effects. The trajectory of his career, from horror to global blockbusters, is not unlike James Cameron, who is coincidentally using Jackson's special effects studio Weta Digital to work on Avatar 2. Both men have become transfixed by spectacle, with each of their films more elaborate and technically sophisticated than the last. They seem intent on blurring the lines between video games and cinema, which means more investment into technology and effects, rather than the scripts. Someone distanced from the source material and video game culture might have made The Hobbit less self-indulgent and plodding. A legal battle between Jackson and New Line Cinema meant Guillermo Del Toro was originally meant to direct the film but was eventually replaced. As it stands, Jackson's love for video games is all too visible here. The script is short on themes, characterisation and subplots. It's overly rigid structure means the film becomes too absorbed in its sets and its environments, instead of the story. Each scene is like a level from a game, designed to showcase a gallery of monsters, which are cogs in the film's tired formula for suspense. Exposition is followed by danger and then an escape route. Press start to begin. If the desire for a home offers some resemblance of a motive, it's regularly lost in the flurry of the action, most of which is extremely unengaging and lacking in tension. The film's one good scene admittedly adds some suspense and intrigue. It involves the reappearance of the monster Gollum and begins tying threads back to the Rings trilogy. The detail in Gollum's expressions, beautifully captured again by Andy Serkis, is even more incredible than before.How do scenes like this, as overlong as they are, fare through the introduction of 48 frames per second? The standard frame rate for films has been to use 24 frames per second. The additional number of frames on the screen adds more detail and colour to the images. The trade-off is that it gives the illusion the images are moving much faster, which is very distracting. It's an unnecessary addition so if you must see the film, watch it in 2D. Will fans enjoy the movie? Undoubtedly, but for most hardcore fans, more is always more. Consider the families who will now be paying for three movies instead of one, as well as the 3D surcharge, and must then wait another two years to finish the story. They're shown a footnote of a narrative here and that's not right.
__label__4 If misstepping were an aerobic exercise, Peter Jackson would be in excellent shape. Although I am loath to admit it, this adaptation of "The Hobbit" is unsatisfactory in many, many ways. It strikes me as Tolkien meets "Bad Taste," meets "Braindead," meets the Feeblest excuse for a three-film extravaganza. After foolishly buying tickets for two screenings in advance, I have now had the displeasure of seeing the film twice in 3D HFR. The experience leaves me embarrassed to have invested so much gleeful anticipation into the release of this film. It very nearly taints my love for the LotR films, though in the end that love remains intact. Here are just a few of the serious issues I observed: 1. The screenplay departs wildly from the heart of this whimsical tale. Two themes are central to the book: first, the moral bankruptcy arising from greed and the lust for gold. This stems in part from Tolkien's adaptation of the Volsungsaga, wherein a dwarf turns into a dragon through greed. Thorin is becoming a dragon (metaphorically). Second, the self-discovery of Bilbo and his emerging moral strength, set within the symbolism of a seasonal journey from spring to spring. This first film does almost nothing to set up these points, aside from some cringe-worthy and heavy-handed dialogue that violates PJ's oft-stated stricture against saying instead of showing (in film). Bilbo's development is too sudden and inadequately motivated in the film. What little emotional payoff exists is forced and manipulated, not earned by what precedes.2. Other weak choices in the screenplay include the following: (a) inappropriate lowbrow humor (is the whole audience supposed to be ten years old?); (b) frequent, pointless references to LotR dialogue (compare "The key is yours now" to "The ring is yours now," to cite just one example); (c) excessive exposition and flashbacks; and (d) heavy-handed clunkers everywhere (along the lines of Legolas's "a diversion" zinger in RotK (for example, "if there's a key, there must be a door" or "after sickness bad things happen). Seems the screenwriters aren't counting on an intelligent audience.3. Mystifying errors: (a) the grass is golden brown in the land before Rivendell. It should be June, not late summer. One expects more green. Yet Thorin says earlier that the summer has nearly passed. This ruins the seasonal symbolism of the journey. This is not the much-vaunted fidelity to text. Jackson invents material needlessly, and never for the better; (b) Why do the dwarfs gawk at Balin's back-story about Thorin as if they hadn't already heard it? (c) Why is there no blood on Bilbo's sword after he stabs the orc near the end of the movie? This road goes ever on and on, but I'll stop here.4. Mystifying plot/story decisions (fodder for cuts): (a) Azog is ridiculous, fake-looking, and pointless; (b) Radagast has no place in this film and is beyond ridiculous with his bird-poop hair and stupid bunny-sled; (c) even Rankin/Bass understood that the place for the Erebor back-story was to insert visuals over the song at Bag End: the song is an oral history of dwarfs. So PJ gave us the same story twice, and the first time told by the wrong person (Bilbo); (d) the stone giants are way over the top, recycling Moria and Caradhras staging from FotR, and badly overstating the way Tolkien tends to invest nature with intention; (e) the White Council should, at best, have been shifted to the second film (as part of the Mirkwood material); the desperate attempt to darken the story by including the Necromancer completely unbalanced the tone. Overall, the narrative structure of the film is confused, with a gross overemphasis on set-piece action, so unbelievable as to jar the viewer right out of the film. It lacks enchantment and it lacks an understanding of the source material.5. The 3D HFR, though spectacular at times, is a nearly total catastrophe, or perhaps the film was not ready for release. Everything outdoors is badly over-lit. The worst example is the company riding through a rainstorm, where (a) they appear to be moving in between the raindrops and (b) the sun appears to be shining everywhere from all directions. The characters do not blend organically with their environments. Rivendell looks like a matte painting. The film is often (but not always) ugly, period. And I don't see how the 3D served the storytelling at all, moths flying out into the theater notwithstanding. Spectacle is not a substitute for character development and emotional resonance, both of which this film sorely lacked.Enough. Sir Peter: please, I beg of you, try to fix these sorts of problems in the next two films. This entry was dreadful, in spite of the widespread (apparent) fan adulation. You are better than this. I fear the cinematic "precious" is lost . . . loooost!
__label__4 Everyone expected The Hobbit to be a different movie from LOTR. LOTR is dark and sombre. The Hobbit is a children's book, albeit one that appeals to adults. We were expecting a lighter movie. What we got was a mess.Jackson has made major changes to the book. That in itself isn't a bad: The LOTR book had weaknesses that Jackson's screenplay fixed, but the Hobbit was already a good "film size" book that didn't need changes. Jackson's rewrites, aimed at stretching a short book into three overly long films, ruined a good story.An example is the addition of the White Orc whose gang chase the dwarfs everywhere. This boring, 1-dimensional villain gives an excuse for additional fight scenes, but these are emotionally unengaging. You never feel that anything is at stake.Some have said Jackson had to stick to the source material. The thing is, he didn't. Everything has been rewritten into a fight scene. We have the absurdity at Trollshaws that the dwarfs attack the trolls, but then we wouldn't have Gandalf's iconic line "Dawn take you all, and be stone to you!" So the dwarfs put down their weapons and crawl into sacks to be eaten. LOLWOT? Gandalf's voice throwing is cut from the film, replaced with some unfunny dialog about worms. It doesn't add anything. It's not funny. It's change purely for the sake of change.It's not like Jackson lightened it up to make it more appealing to kids: There is a lot of violence (e.g. Gandalf stabs the goblin king in the eye then slashes his belly open). Jackson just doesn't show any blood. No blood = kids movie. Got it?Jackson added other tie-ins to the LOTR to try and pad the story out, but like the unnecessary cameos they will only make you groan. Jackson now even suggests Gandalf orchestrated the dwarf journey as a deliberate precursor to LOTR, as if he had an instinct that Bilbo would find the ring. It really makes no sense.Dol Guldur was a wonderfully creepy place in the LOTR books, although it never appeared in the Hobbit. Jackson has Radaghast, a supposedly powerful wizard show up, flee in a panic after he sees a ghost. A ghost that can't even swing a sword. It just doesn't make sense. And then there is Radaghast's rabbit sled. Again not in the book. It's not funny. It's just stupid.Much like George Lucas' flying R2D2, Jackson has changed characters. When Saruman and Gandalf fight in LOTR Jackson said he didn't want anything clichéd like Wizard Lightning. Yet in the Hobbit Gandalf's flash of light suddenly becomes a fireball killing hundreds of goblins at a time. Well gee Gandalf. Why didn't you tell us you could do that?Jackson's elves have never looked like elves in any movie: More like blonde people with pointy ears, but in LOTR his dwarfs looked like dwarfs. In The Hobbit most of the dwarfs look like humans. Ridiculously Aragon... sorry, Thorin ... is man candy for female cinema-goers. What do you think, ladies? Come for the disembowelments? Stay for the romance? Like the whole Liv Tyler character he wrote into LOTR, it just doesn't work. Jackson needs to do a few romcoms to get it out of his system.The CGI is very overdone. Characters fall from great heights. They get squashed by rocks. They walk away without a scratch. It feels a lot like a video game. You never feel emotionally invested. If Jackson must do rewrites, he should have killed some of the dwarfs. There are 13 of them after all, and losing a couple would have helped the audience care more about the ones that are left.In the book the goblins lived in tunnels. In the movie they live in absurdly overdone CGI caverns. Someone needs to tell Jackson sometimes less is more.How did Jackson, a director with such a good track record, make such a bad movie? Sometimes directors come out with good movies (e.g. George Lucas) and we think they are the hand of god. But then they come out with more movies, and you wonder if there isn't some luck involved or uncredited people in the background who weren't there this time? Jackson's King Kong shows not everything he touches turns to gold. Jackson is obviously overconfident, and the studio was too, but like George Lucas even if Jackson laid a steaming turd it would still make been hugely profitable. We've already hailed Jackson a genius, so he has nothing to prove to us except to make a lot of money. He's also very into video games. This movie feels very much like a video game.The only good parts in this movie: Smaug's raid at the beginning, and Gollum's riddle scene. For 15 minutes out of 3 hours you will be entertained. The rest is slow, boring and emotionally unengaging; silly without being funny. The CGI is overdone. Being a Middle Earth story many people will see the movie anyway, and most will be disappointed.
__label__4 The Hobbit is a relatively short book written as a prequel to the Lord of the Rings trilogy. It is NOT a trilogy, and even though LOTR is comfortably presented as a trilogy, it was written to be one very long book in three parts.The Hobbit would have made a fine movie-- a single movie. There is enough characters, places and creepy scary things to jam-pack a good 2 1/2 hour cinematic experience. But Jackson lost when he took a short book, wrote a screenplay for three movies, added unnecessary characters and plot lines wholly irrelevant to Tolkien's intent, failed to expand on perfectly good themes inherent in the book, and overwhelmed the viewer with a saturated screen in almost every scene.In the first places, dwarfs work in mines traditionally because they are small humans with corresponding human strength, and they can fit where normal humans cannot go. Funny thing is, most of the dwarfs in this movie do not look like dwarfs at all! Inasmuch as I love Bilbo Baggins-- and the choice of the adorable Martin Freeman was an excellent one-- this movie should have been called "Thorin Oakenshield", rather than "The Hobbit". Most of the story and camera time is spent on Thorin and his greedy pursuit of gold (which is changed for political correctness to read: we need a homeland!). I would have loved to have seen more of the Shire, more of Bilbo doing his Hobbty things, BEFORE the deluge of the 13 uninvited dwarfs.The best scene in the entire movie was with Bilbo and Gollum. Fine camera-work, excellent CGI, excellent acting, perfect timing. Serkus should get an Oscar whether the character is CGI or not.One of my favorite scenes in The Hobbit is the rescue from the Orcs by the eagles. Tolkien is clear to show the size difference between the races of Middle Earth-- large wizard, small dwarfs, even smaller Hobbit. I was disappointed that in most scenes Bilbo looks the same size as the dwarfs. It would have been sharper and truer to the story to make sure he was CGI-ed into a smaller fellow yet.The Hobbit was written for a younger audience than LOTR and the language and imagery is thus more suitable to pre-teens. If Jackson had kept the childlike nature of the story going, rather than making a good half or more of it of fierce, endless and repetitive battle scenes, it would have been a better movie. No charm! No magic! it was just a bunch of brutal battles where everyone continues to escape unscathed! A cartoon version would have been more realistic.The funniest scene in the whole movie would be for Monty Python fans alone. When the group reaches sight of the elven city, Bilbo exclaims, his face full to the camera, "RIVENDELL"!!! It reminded me of Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table in turn exclaiming "CAMELOT!" ("shhhh! it's only a model") I cannot believe that Jackson could not see that reference (or maybe he really did!)Jackson has gotten too Middle-Earthed for his own good. My hope is that the next installments produce some of the charm of the Bilbo-Gollum scene without loosing the beauty of its New Zealand scenery. Slow down, less fighting, more time to see the scenery, more time to know the characters. We don't need more big sloppy ugly things to fight!
__label__4 The movie starts out as a warm return to middle-earth, we get a nice background-story of how the dwarfs lost their hometown, Erebor, to Smaug, the gold-seeking dragon. Smaug settles down beneath the abandoned city to guard the dwarf gold and especially the huge jewel, "the heart of the mountain" which the dwarfs found deep inside the mountain.The build-up is very good, we get a nice transition from the aged Bilbo, on the day of his birthday and the huge party (which takes place in the first LOTR book/movie) to a younger version of the same, a hobbit who mostly spends his time alone in his hole and is absolutely not seeking any adventures(Or even any visitors). Before the scene with Gandalf and the Dwarfs at Bilbo's house is over it's been almost 40 min of the movie already but the pace works considering it's supposed to be 3 movies and the movie is brilliant so far any way so you don't mind the long scenes.So far so good, what could go wrong with such a nice beginning? Well, apparently quite a lot. Somewhere along the journey the movie turns into transformers in middle- earth were every action scene is like taken out of a video game scenario, with the main characters either bouncing around on platforms falling 100 meters a turn, dodging boulders from stone giants or playing domino with trees. Between the horrible Michael Bay inspired action we get comic relief from stereotypical characters like Bombur the fat dwarf and the thin dwarf with slingshot, whatever his name was, as well as Radagast, the escaped mental patient/wizard.The major problem with the action scenes is that all the main characters feels invulnerable, they narrowly escape death ten times per scene whilst joking it off or not showing any real emotions.The journey does at no point feel like a struggle or a huge task like with Frodo and Sam in LOTR where you half wondered if they were going to make it, even while having read the books.Martin Freeman does a good job as Bilbo, at least the first half hour and in the Gollum scene, in between those scenes you almost forget Bilbo is in the movie at all, because his screen-time is quite limited for a main character.Another issue, a visual one, is the main villain, Azog the albino-orc. The problem is he's in CGI which makes him look really sh*t and out of place compared to the orcs with make-up, the difference was very obvious in some scenes. His backstory with Thorin was very far-stretched and didn't help the plot at all.Overall a mediocre and forgettable movie, while some scenes were enjoyable, especially the beginning and the riddle scene with Gollum/Bilbo, the rest of the movie was a train-wreck. It's a mystery to me how some people call it a masterpiece.
__label__4 The disappointment I feel is perhaps more for David Fincher's career than this film. Everything on the surface of 'The Curious Case of Benjamin Button' appears beautiful - the cinematography, the special effects, the make-up, the cast... everything is about eye candy. It is sweet but like sweets containing high glucose corn syrup, it leaves one irritable and certainly dissatisfied. I find with most critiques of mainstream, big budget films those who fall into two camps - those taken in by the hype, by the surface of the film and those who feel and understand the film, aware of its flaws. It is the same with bestseller novels. First of all, the concept of this film was unique. Let us at least take notice of F.Scott Fitzgerald who may or may not have stolen the idea/material from his wife Zelda (whom many scholars believe was the true genius and not her husband). Origins aside, the film has all the trimmings of previous work. There are some people who are vehement about this being 'not Forest Gump'. I would stress the similarities between the two films and the fact Eric Roth wrote both. Let us take note of the obvious:Atypical hero: Forest Gump/Benjamin Button Love Interest Jenny/Daisy Mother (with similar accents) Hero's 'war involvement' Vietnam War/WWII Setting American South/American South Leitmotif Feather/HummingbirdThere are others but those are the most obvious. Let us also remind ourselves both films are narrated by the hero who both happen to have interesting and 'profound' observations about life and their lives. But if it were simply a matter of being Forest Gump, then I would still have high praise for Benjamin Button. Not so. The majority of this film remains on the surface. Despite all the observations, despite the epic sweep of events that pass through the narrative, we as an audience are rarely allowed to go deeper. Again, the film was based on a unique idea but without the human psychology, without more background on several characters, I found it difficult to relate to any of these characters. Benjamin Button. He is born old, he grows young. That's all we really know. He lives with old people, he learns to play the piano, he leaves home, he travels, he sees the world. Most of the narrative is about places and meeting people, rarely about being involved with others, what it means or feels like to relate to a world that sees him as old. He is an outsider. How does this feel? We don't really know as an audience. The film is entirely experiential, rarely psychological. Daisy. We know she had a grandmother. We knows she loves to dance. But little else. What motivated her to dance, why did she love dancing? We don't know. And of course, why of all things did she not have a relationship with her daughter? The relationship: A man returns from war. He meets a woman that used to be the girl he loved. The woman wants to seduce him. She attempts. He steps back. When this occurs in the film, we don't really understand the reasoning nor the purpose of the scene. Daisy is in town one day. Her and Benjamin go out together. Why is sex so important to Daisy? And why do we have to watch the two characters go back and forth before they land up together? When he visits her in New York, she is immature, a school girl attempting to get him jealous. Yet he is still attracted to her. There are so many other questions I have about this film and so many things that simply do not make sense. The main one that comes to mind: if you are a dancer, someone who is professionally trained, why in any circumstances would you even think of dancing on a crowded street? The scene in which Daisy was hit by a car was for too unbelievable. She is first held up by a friend with a broken shoe lace. Daisy remains behind. In such a situation, when you have to wait for someone, the last thing you want to do is fool around after waiting. The scene felt convoluted and dumb - not tragic. The montage in which Daisy and Benjamin find themselves together plays out like all other young lover clichés - they travel together, they make love, they buy a love, they make love in their home, they paint their home (there is a brief, albeit clichéd 'lovers painting the wall' scene ... yawn...seen it...). I didn't find this film to be magical, just a mosaic of previous formulas and scenarios. Benjamin 'youthens', he leaves her. He comes back later. Throughout the entire film, the audience really doesn't know or understand or get a sense of what it means to grow 'young' nor what kind of effect it might have on others. I felt very tired after watching this picture. The first half was not bad. My interest was kept, I enjoyed the characters but when I started feeling lost and cheated, that I would never get any closer to the lives, feelings and deeper philosophies, and what with some of the frustrating scenes between Daisy and Benjamin, I began to grow impatient.
__label__4 I can't see why others rate this film so highly. Maybe because people are so used to seeing visual trash from Hollywood these days, when they get visual trash with some good acting, they call it a masterpiece.Benjamin Button is a very well paced, visually affecting movie. But it is one that leaves you feeling hollow. The feel for the characters due to the skill of the actors, but you are given no understanding for their motivations. Why did the female lead desire so much to be a dancer? Where was Benjamins conflict about leaving his family? Layer that with the oh so obvious feeling that this was done before (and better) with Forrest Gump and you feel like this is a rehash of the same idea. Now throw in cliché after cliché (crazy sea captain, dancer struck down ridiculously in her prime, lovers buying a love nest and painting the walls...) and you end up feeling like you have gone on a ride, but it didn't make you feel any differently than when you got on. You can't identify or understand what has happened, so why is it important? Are we all so gullible these days that any movie with some enhanced visuals and good acting gets called a masterpiece?
__label__4 I'm prepared to forgive the film its poorly explained, misconstrued, evolutionary science, as it is a comic book adaptation after all, but that should not excuse the ponderous emptiness of the story, which detracts significantly from the promising beginnings established in the first film(s). Bereft of compelling character development, sinister undertones and brooding tension, the 'climax' of betrayal and inevitable, prophetic fulfilment were so poorly managed I was left feeling ambivalent and detached; while the rest of the film, with its cheesy 'nudge-wink' humour and clumsy, explanatory dialogue left me head in hands, knuckle-biting, inwardly-sighing and fidgeting with disappointment throughout.I got the impression Matthew Vaughn wanted us to laugh AT the film, with a number of moments where this was seemingly encouraged (Wolverine's cameo, the bedroom scenes, Beasts appearance etc). Was he in fact being a lazy snob toward X-Men just because he had his own little adaptation in Kick-Ass? I had a bad feeling when I discovered Bryan Singer wasn't directing the third film, but little did I realise that X-Men: The Last Stand would actually look good in comparison to First Class. I now await any Kick-Ass sequel/spin-off with unexpected trepidation as I have no idea what Matthew Vaughn was trying here and I was amazed to discover Bryan Singer was actually involved in the creation of this messy film, which ended up being too much of not a lot.All said and done, Fassbender and McAvoy put in decent performances, although Kevin Bacon as the central antagonist was truly underwhelming and un-menacing and if this is the best he's got to offer then he should go back to doing inconsequential cameo's in films like Planes, Trains and Automobiles, or make a prequel of tremors, or just give up. Any of which I would be happy with.
__label__4 OK,it's not that part 1 was good,you actually knew it would suck,but the 2nd really grinds my gears. You have in your hands a civil war,the final battle into the heart of the capital,and you spent 2 hours of your life watching your main character taking a walk in a war zone. And with all that time strolling,you have no character development,for none of them,just a few moments that the movie is like "Ok,from now on,that's how things are". I watched this for closure,i wish i hadn't.I didn't expected it to be a great movie,just a good action one,and it failed.Miserably. For goodness sake,London has fallen had more character development than a book based quadralogy,LOTR had less walking..good riddance to the series.
__label__4 Such a long wait for The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2 (2015), was it worth the waiting? To answer that I'd need to point out a few variables. First of all I do give this film credit for the following items: scenery, acting, and pointing out that most of humanity is sheep; that being said let's get the review going.We were highly anticipating this film being as where part 1 left off, we had high hopes that part two would at least be as strong as the rest; sadly this film plummeted. The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2 (2015) is a very slow paced film with 3 actual action scenes; most of the film looks as if it were filmed inside one location of green screens as the cast slowly moved from right to left for scenery alignment. The story was the weakest of all the before films, and it basically ended with with almost 18 minutes of credits.I'd have to say this film wasn't worth the wait, I feel that the fans were left hanging to see a very slow money grabbing ending.
__label__4 I considered myself a fan of the Hunger Games films prior to watching the films, despite Mockingjay part 1 being a fairly obvious cash in. As a movie divided in two, I never expected a satisfying conclusion from that film, but I don't feel I got one from this film either.I'm going to spoil everything for my review, so don't read on if you haven't seen.There is a pretty crucial rule in story telling where your heroine must be relevant to the plot's conclusion. In this movie, Katnis isn't even conscious for the tedious finale to the rebellion - which was what Mockingjay was all about.Supreme leader Snow is defeated rather easily by the rebellion. I guess the rebels must have made lots of progress in the war effort while we were following Katnis around the city, but we never saw any of that so it just seemed a bit random. Katnis' plan to defeat Snow, was literally just to walk in to his house, which was foiled by the fact he had guards at the gate. They didn't factor that in to their plan? Seriously? Katnis is then knocked out by a bomb and wakes up to find the war is over, making her irrelevant to the conclusion of this plot.Afterwards, another sub plot suddenly takes primary focus. Katnis' unease with the leader of the rebellion becomes far stronger after she takes the word of the series' primary antagonist and decides to murder the leader of the rebellion. The movie doesn't really present a watertight case for the rebellion leader's guilt over the bombings. Were the bombs definitely hers? Did she mean to murder civilians? Are we morally free to kill President Obama since the US forces blew up a hospital a few months ago? Her idea for a 'symbolic' Hunger Games seems to be the point where her guilt crystallises in Katnis' mind, but then Katnis votes for it, so it appears she would rather murder people for their insane ideas rather than try to talk them down when given the chance.Another disappointing aspect to the finale is Katnis' reaction to the death of her sister, which is significantly delayed. You do see a quite visceral reaction in the last few scenes of the film, but why did I have to wait around ten minutes for that as Katnis just went about her daily life meeting dictators and murdering heads of state? The franchise begins with Katnis sacrificing herself to save her sister in the first movie: you would have thought that the death of that sister would have had a more immediate reaction, given it was the character's primary motivation for all her actions in film one. It kind of felt like it was just put on the back burner for a couple of scenes.Prior to the conclusion the film felt badly paced and meandering, but I overlooked that due to profit based decision to split the film into two at the expense of the story. I guess I'll have to look back on the Hunger Games franchise as a movie with one sequel, as I really would prefer not to remember this conclusion, as it has not done the first two movies justice.
__label__4 there you go i said it when i saw this film it was Nicolas doing same weird acting but with little magic he had that looks and style i thought of doctor strange of marvel comics and this film is a Disney release funny thing is Disney now owns marvel instead of wasting money on this they could have made a doctor strange film it would have been better now its 2014 they are starting to make one i hope its better.one of the many things i hate that always there is a boy and a girl desperate for a kiss why is that is it really necessary to include love story.the plot:Balthazar is a master sorcerer who finds and trains Dave a Merlin Descendant to put an end to evil Morgana Le Fey & Horvath.the cast:as i said Nicolas Cage looks like he was in nostalgic mode and came right out of his own 90s flick Con Air,plus what were Alfred Molina & Monica Bellucci doing here these two are masters in acting didn't they read the script before joining this project,Teressa Palmer & Jay Baruchel are passable.the thing with Disney is that they really bring something best every time specially in animation since last 50 years no one has come close they surpass themselves its about time Disney should be careful and protect there reputation there is a lot of competition came up they keep this up i am afraid they will fade but i pray and hope that wont happen as i am a huge Disney fan myself anyway the point is this script is the weakest ever they worked on the cgi,acting and etc are below average.Overall The Sorcerer's Apprentice 2010 is a one time watch if you are a Disney or Nicolas Cage fan don't expect anything my rating is 4/10.
__label__4 It all starts off so well too. The opening shot of Wolfgang Petersen's Poseidon is beautiful. A single take that begins beneath the surface of the ocean that swings up and out of it as the underside of the ship slices through the waves, before pivoting round the colossal cruise liner and zeroing in on Josh Lucas running on the deck. With the sun setting in the distance and the immense size of the vessel itself contrasted with the deep blue of the water, this is a visually astounding entrance to a movie that is unfortunately very shallow indeed.A remake of the classic disaster movie The Poseidon Adventure, this tells much the same story with a small group of passengers trying to escape a doomed ocean liner after it capsizes due to a freak wave. Given the beloved status of the original, besting it was going to be tricky from the start so how to do it? Bestow the characters with as much depth and humanity as possible, arrange it so that you don't want any of them to die just as the original film did? No. That isn't the 21st Century Studio Approach to blockbusters at all, the trick is explosions! Lots of explosions! And dangerous stunts that happen in very quick succession with no set up whatsoever.As a result, things happen very quickly. We've hardly got to know anyone on the ship before the wave strikes and sends their world tumbling upside down in a hail of glass and debris. Trapped beneath the waves, there is no debate on the best means of survival but instead a bull headed rush to escape as soon as possible and before you know it, barely any time has elapsed before we have our luckless nobodies dangling from lift shafts, diving through burning oil slicks or scrambling up air vents rapidly filling with water. This could all be very entertaining if it wasn't so empty and if only they'd eased back on the throttle a little bit, we could have had a much more successful film.Kurt Russell for instance is wasted. As an ex firefighter and former Mayor of New York with a failed marriage behind him, they could have crafted the image of a troubled man going through a midlife crisis who finds himself tested beyond his limits. Instead, the only hints at any characterisation are him protesting his daughter's cleavage bearing dress to leave no doubt that theirs is a strained relationship. Then there is Richard Dreyfuss (who has finally found a bigger boat), whose character might as well be listed in the credits as "depressed, elderly gay man." Everyone else is just as vacuous and while Josh Lucas is certainly a charismatic focal point, it cannot make up for the two dimensional stereotypes of Kevin Dillon's gambler Lucky Larry or Mike Vogel's performance as Christian, the fiancée of Russell's daughter who manages to put in perhaps the worst attempt at acting you will see in a blockbuster this year.It does have a few commendable points though. One death scene involving a lift shaft, jagged metal spikes and an explosion is an adrenaline pumping crowd pleaser and the aforementioned scramble through the flooding ventilation shaft is really quite tense, the ensemble cast squeezed together in a claustrophobic nightmare as the water bubbles up around them. Ultimately though, it is not enough to save it. Poseidon may make for a diverting hour and a half but Hollywood needs to learn a valuable lesson about plotting: bigger explosions and insane stunts are nowhere near as impressive if we don't care about the people involved. The original version made an entire generation terrified of getting on a boat with Ernest Borgnine, this is just laughable.
__label__4 I attended an IMAX screening with a group of friends and family on opening day. Some of us are fans of the original. At least one had seen neither the original nor the Hallmark miniseries. One thing became clear early on in this film: a sky-high budget isn't worth a bucket of seawater if the characters aren't interesting or involving.On New Year's Eve, the ocean liner, Poseidon, is capsized by an enormous rogue wave that appears without warning. Seems all the sophisticated equipment on the bridge doesn't include reliable radar targeting; rather, the wall of water is detected Carnac-style by a bridge officer, and then spotted by a depressed passenger inches away from taking his life by jumping overboard (the audience laughed out loud during the former instance). What follows is the life-and-death struggle of a handful of wealthy Caucasian, er, I mean, assorted passengers through the fiery, waterlogged bowels of the overturned ship, as they attempt to reach and escape through one of the bow thrusters. Who are these people? I couldn't tell you, because at least one person in our group fell asleep during the film, and afterwards, the rest of us could barely remember any of the leads' names or back stories. We learn nothing about the central characters by the end of the film that we didn't already know or sense in the opening introductions. Storytelling is dead in Hollywood.The Poseidon Adventure, starring Gene Hackman, is still loved by many decades after its release, because the creative forces behind that project breathed life into the characters and crafted a solid film. Wolfgang Petersen's re-imaging, Poseidon, will be forgotten faster than yesterday's breakfast buffet aboard the Pacific Princess, for exactly the opposite reason. It's yet another exercise in CGI gimmickry and a hollow voyage to nowhere.
__label__4 It is important to point out that this new film is only based on THE POSEIDON ADVENTURE ... it is not a remake. When a passenger ship (named Poseidon) is hit by a large wave on New Years Eve and capsizes, a handful of people struggle to escape. Other than that, do not expect any similarities -- not one character, not one line of dialog, not one scene...I first saw the original film when I was ten years old and have been a huge fan ever since. Surely TPA (as imperfect as it may be), was the catalyst that spurred my interest in ocean liners, architecture, classical music ... and Art Deco design. Therefore, I was excited about the latest film -- and pleased that it had been given to a talented director. I knew that the film and its characters had been changed/updated and was cool with that. But after viewing the new film twice now, I feel a bit let down.I don't want to touch on the stale characters. Although it is a major flaw, that subject has already been addressed again and again on this board.The cast (with the exception of Dreyfuss) are ALL buff and beautiful -- no fatties or uglies here. Of course, some of the physical obstacles in this film would require the endurance of a champion athlete and the bravado of a Schwarzenegger action hero! This is definitely not the motley group of survivors found in the original.The CGI graphics were very good. The ship was beautiful in a glitzy Las Vegas sort of way ... but the Poseidon never seemed very "real" to me. Perhaps it was all those overly elaborate CGI camera shots? Not really sure why. The Titanic certainly seemed "real" in TITANIC. But for me, the Poseidon seemed as plastic as the people on it.The capsizing sequence was stunning, but so many areas of the ship were highlighted in such a short time that I never really felt I was part of the action. There were no screaming passengers clinging/falling from overturned tables. No man falling backwards onto an illuminated skylight (a famous cinematic scene). And no Christmas tree!?! The Christmas tree played a pivotal role in the original film ... from passengers falling into it during the capsizing ... to it unexpectedly crashing down ... to the survivors climbing it (and Mrs. Rosen getting stuck in the spokes) ... to it falling back into the flooding Dining Room when panic ensues! Why leave it out entirely when there are so many cinematic possibilities? Instead the characters in the new film "sneak out" of the Ballroom using some stacked chairs. There is absolutely no plea for others to join them even though they know that anyone left behind may die. I suppose it says something about today's society ... "I'm getting out of here -- to hell with everyone else!". But these guys are supposed to be the heroes in the film?Don't expect much humor in this film either. I really missed the funny scene with the upside-down bathroom set. I can't imagine not working that into the new movie! But these new action-survivors don't seem to require toilets ... or rest. They keep going and going -- through one unrealistic scenario one after another!It was strange that the survivors find heaps of dead bodies everywhere they go, but never any other survivors. A ship this size would be expected to have over 4000 people on-board. Where are they? When our survivors merge in the Nightclub/Disco, they then struggle to find an escape route. So where did the 200-300 other people who left the room moments earlier go? And why can't our survivors seem to find a staircase/elevator core on this ship? Every modern passenger ship has several -- found every 200-feet or so. There is always one adjacent to the atrium (in addition to the grand stairway and glass elevators). Perhaps all the other people immediately ran up one of the usually ever-present staircases and escaped out a porthole hours earlier? That would certainly explain the absence of other people...I must admit that I missed John William's music from the original. I wonder why he wasn't hired to update his existing TPA score -- dramatic in all the right places and the deep "bell" sound accompanying the music is indeed haunting. And wouldn't it be fun for all us old-timers if they had used "The Morning After" (Academy Award-winning song from the original) and updated it in the new film?As fun as the original film may have been, I know that it is flawed, so some rewriting would be expected. And the producers obviously felt the need to update the original film to appeal to modern movie (and cruising) audiences. But this new version seems soulless. I feel that they may have been better off setting the film in 1972 and using the original campy script! That wonderful, but cheesy, dialog ran the gamut from the ridiculous to the sublime! Some of the quotes are classics! The new film's dialog is completely forgettable.I suppose that this new film is fine if you are not expecting much. I was obviously hoping that Petersen would turn the original film into another TITANIC. But this POSEIDON is what it is ... a mindless summer action movie with dazzling special effects. Should appeal to teenagers. Though it is doubtful that this new film will inspire many youths or ever become a cult classic. And decades from now, will it have web pages, fan clubs and conventions devoted to it?Actually, I'm guessing that by this time next year, this POSEIDON will be largely forgotten ... as it should be.
__label__4 Can I get a job as a screenwriter? You obviously don't need any experience. In fact the dialogue was probably just thrown in to waste paper. Were there any technical advisors on the crew? I mean besides the chimps behind the typewriters. The actual wave sequence was decent, but a little underdone, (except for those is the flash fire sequences, they were well done). I kept expecting it to get better, but it never did; in fact it got worse. Can I ask just how Kurt Russell knew exactly where the controls for the engines were? About 150 yards down this corridor, under water! Seems like most ship movies I've seen there are a full set of controls in the engine room. Why would the motors be running anyway? How could the tanks fill so rapidly if they were upside down? And do workers normally go into these huge tanks to turn the pumps on? Yes the deeper they got, they deeper my heart sank. How come the boyfriend show absolutely no signs of injury 10 minutes after being freed from the lighting rig? Dreyfuss should have been dead after getting hit by that door. Was there a Christmas tree? Seems to me that there should have been one. I guess pc has struck the luxury cruise lines too. I guess I'm getting old.
__label__4 An epic letdown from Wolfgang Peterson. The original film was always good entertainment, but comparing the two versions makes the original look like Citizen Kane! It's like Wolfgang took everything that was good about the original and threw it away. Ronald Neame? Never realized what a great director he was (DeMille Jr!) until I saw this remake. Just compare the way he staged the big scenes, framed the action with a sense of scope, gave his actors real characters to play and used sets, lighting, music and pacing to really pull you into the "adventure." The original is always knocked for its "cardboard" characters and lame dialogue. But at least it had a "theme." It was about something. It was "if you want to survive then start climbing. don't sit around and wait for help to arrive. Religion won't save you, the government won't save you (don't forget this was Watergate era.) Only you and your own hard work will save you." It seemed like everything was shot too close. there was no scope or sense of epic-ness. was this to save money so they didn't have to build big sets? It felt like this film was edited with a hack saw that took away all suspense. All of a sudden a wave comes and it turns over. This modern ship didn't have any kind of warning system that would warn of a "wall of water 90 feet high"?? Did I blink and miss the scene where the wave shows up on the radar? Thank goodness there was an officer on the bridge who could "sense" the oncoming tidal wave. Gimme a break.where was the Christmas tree? In the original you could feel that it was Christmas/New Years. Decorations, baby! In this remake they simply decide to follow Josh Lucas up some wreckage. No drama at all! what about all of Richard Dreyfuss' gay buddies? He did't even try to find them! The fx were very cheesy digital. I saw it in IMAX so maybe that's why. Was it my imagination, or did the first trailer have more of the ship turning over?Terrible action music! Didn't they learn anything from John Williams' moody original? But the thing that killed this for me was how mean spirited and gory it was. My 12 year old daughter kept turning away. I saw the original when I was 10 and one burned chef in the kitchen was really heartbreaking. But now people are bar b cued in flash fires or electrocuted in nightclubs with no feeling. when Lucas tells Dreyfus to deliberately drop the waiter in order to save himself, then Drefus kicks the poor guy to his death -- you could really feel the audience detach. Too cruel to be called "entertainment." Save your money. Or better yet, rent Beyond the Poseidon Adventure and watch it on fast forward and you'll get a sense of this loser.
__label__4 Alice Through the Looking Glass is the second attempt by Disney Studios to deliver a live action take on the classic tale. Unfortunately, no improvement or effort has been made over the last 6 years to make a compelling story or plot with compelling characters. This time we see Alice return to Wonderland or "Underland" to save the Hatter by going back in time to significant events in Wonderland's past. The biggest positive I can give about this film are the scenes in the real world. These beginning scenes gave Alice some needed depth. I thought the costumes were excellently done and the CGI scenery for the most part was pretty to look at. I also mildly enjoyed the character of Time, played by Sasha Baron Cohen, who by far was the most interesting character and had the best lines in the entire movie. Now for the negatives. There is not a single scene in this entire movie that I felt had any depth or substance. It was just Alice jumping from one scene to the next. The acting was flat and the CGI characters looked liked a cartoon. This made the film very disjointed, uninteresting, and felt like the screenwriter was improvising every scene and just finally gave up. I recommend you waste two hours watching this mess of a film and instead read the original Lewis Carroll book. You can thank me later. D+/four out of ten stars. -Rooster Reviews
__label__4 It would be safe to say that the third time is definitely NOT the charm when it comes to the "Shrek" series, since "Shrek the Third" lacks virtually all the imaginativeness, wit and magic that made the previous two installments such tremendous fun for young and old viewers alike. In this latest go-round, the writers have clearly run out of comical inspiration, leaving us with a humorless farrago of labored jokes and sappy life-lessons (mainly about the joys of prospective fatherhood and the importance of being willing to take a chance in life) guaranteed to please no target audience or age group whatsoever.In this edition, Shrek's father-in-law, the frog king of the realm of Far Far Away, bequeaths his crown to Shrek on his deathbed unless the reluctant ogre can find a distant heir (the young Arthur) to take his place. Shrek, filled with doubts about his own ability to rule the kingdom, heads off with his faithful companions, Donkey and Puss In Boots, to find the boy and bring him back with them to the castle where he will assume his rightful place on the throne. Meanwhile, the vain, conniving Prince Charming has decided to enlist the aid of all the villains of the kingdom to mount a coup so that he can proclaim himself ruler of the land.As I reckon them, there are about five hearty laughs in "Shrek the Third," and at least four of them come in the opening scene of the film (a very funny parody of third-rate dinner theater). Unfortunately, it's all pretty much downhill from there, as one ostensibly comic line after another crashes and burns, leaving us with little but the gorgeous backdrops and seamless animation to hold our attention. Regarding the latter point, it must be stated that movie animators have certainly come a long way in perfecting the facial expressions of their characters, but what is the point of such a technological advancement if it is placed in the service of as dismal a script as Andrew Adams, Howard Gould, Jeffrey Price, Peter S. Seaman, J. David Stern, David N. Weiss, and Jon Zack have concocted here? Somehow, you know you're in trouble when no fewer than seven writers have a hand in a screenplay, but couldn't at least one of them have come up with a funny joke or two while they were hammering it all out? Moreover, the story itself is dull and plodding and even the "Shrek" trademark of piling on clever pop culture references falls flat in this instance (and having Medieval teenagers blabbing away in already-dated Valley Girl lingo just doesn't cut it). Eddie Murphy and Antonio Banderas still provide yeoman service as the voices of Donkey and Puss In Boots, respectively, but even they can't keep the whole enterprise from feeling as if blockbuster rigor mortis has finally set in. Unlike the two earlier films in the series, "Shrek the Third" feels less the product of a magic spell than of a divine curse.
__label__4 You will see many reviews by movie critics that are too negative and many reviews by fanboys that are too positive. I'll try to look at this movie from the point of view of a long time Warcraft player as well as someone who might be unfamiliar with the source material.The movie is edited badly, there is no real sense of time lapse in it. The characters are all over the world within minutes between each scene and it causes an unrealistic presentation of how large the world actually is and how fast these characters can travel from one place to another. While the movie wanted to keep the focus on many different characters at the same time, they could have made a slower and more realistic approach where some events could have simply been mentioned rather than presented.The CGI is great, however it only looks great next to other CGI. Inexperienced viewers won't notice this much, however the CGI definitely stands out when real objects come into scene such as the actors. For the most part they've done a great job at making it all look as real as possible, but towards the end when there is a orc vs human battle in front of the dark portal, it got a bit sloppy.The acting appeared to be "okay" for the most part, however the person who plays Khadgar definitely had some issues. He never seems quiet into it and comes across pretty self aware.The aesthetic of the movie tries to copy the game nearly 100%. It's subjective whether this is a good or a bad thing, but I did not think it was a good decision. In a movie, the ridiculous and silly objects such as house sized anvils and shoulder armor twice as big as the wearers head looks the way they should, very very silly. They might have kept the style yet tried to make it seem a bit more grounded to decrease the silliness of it all. Though this is subjective.The fight between Medivh and the others are, to put it simply, clumsy. It was sloppy and wasn't the fight the story deserved. With Khadgar and Lothar playing around with the silly clay monster and Medivh just walking around chanting. It might have been best for them to stick to the actual story where Medivh puts an aging curse on Khadgar and gets stabbed through the chest, causing the demon Sargeras to slowly emerge and get it's head chopped off. It is simpler and more direct. The way it is in the movie was simply too silly.Generally speaking, the best parts of the movie were those of the interactions within the Orc society. The drama was there, the struggle was there and most of the development was there also. The same care was absent from the human side of the story, having a very forced and unemotional death scene for Lothar's son as well as an awkwardly revealed secret of Medivh's possession. No matter my opinion, it appears the movie is set to have a sequel, and hopefully they will address most of these issues. Personally I would try to reduce the silliness aspect of the aesthetic and try to have there be more focus on the story so the characters don't just jump around so much. Also there should be more explanation for those who are not familiar with the story. A movie can't survive only with fan service.
__label__4 Before I even get started: Yes, I have played the games. I actually did play all WC-games, starting in the mid 90s, and have been playing WOW on and off ever since 2005. So, with that said, I was a bit worried about the movie when I saw the trailers, as a lot of the stuff looked very artificial and even cheap. Don't get me wrong, the CGI is pretty damn good, and you can see how much motion capture etc. has advanced. However, it falls apart for me whenever one of the really good-looking orcs (as in: great CGI) are in the same scene as humans. Once that happens, it starts to look very artificial. Actually, the riding-wolves the orcs use look artificial in EVERY scenery, regardless of who else is in the frame. It's not their size, it's that they look really bad. Also, some of the makeup looked pretty bad too. When I first saw the elves, I was rather amused, even though we only got a quick look at them, as their ears looked totally cheesy and artificial, especially the color. It looked like bad cos-play ears. Well, of course, it's hard to pull it off, so let's get to the other parts: - The acting. I didn't enjoy the acting. There was almost no vibe at all between the actors. Some overacting happened (Wide-open stare of Lothar, who totally looks on the edge all the time. Yes, he tragically lost his son, but it was tiring). The plot/setting. Yes, they have a lot of story to set up, as they apparently really want to make sequels. However, what was the goal here? Was this supposed to get new fans for the franchise, introduce people who have never played the games to the world of Azeroth? Why then have such a convoluted plot and such a huge cast, with so many things (Medivh being possessed etc) being unexplained. I can't even imagine how confusing some of this must have been for people who don't know any WC-story.Was this supposed to be fan-service? Why then change so many things, have so many inconsistencies? I don't doubt that some of the changes to the lore might have been an attempt to create a better story. However, if you want to satisfy fans... they do NOTICE when you change things too much. Why is Dalaran flying? This didn't happen until much later. Why does Stormwind look like it did after it was rebuilt after the orcs actually razed it?So much of it seemed forced... the Murloc-sound might make some people smile, but it was like "OK, let's just throw everything in there, all these innuendos and clues! Oh, and let's plaster the Kirin Tor icon EVERYWHERE"The dialogue was... ridiculousThe love-scene/love-story. Gee, yeah, The Hobbit showed me that it apparently is totally and absolutely impossible to make a movie without a love-story thrown in. Regardless of what happens, someone has to fall in love with someone, no matter how forced or silly it looks. So the little love-story here feels much too forced, develops much too quickly (well, at least that part is over quickly) and just is not needed. It's like they went through the checklist and went "OK, love-story, done!"The music... what happened? I did actually listen to the score by itself as well, because it does not stand out at all in the movie, I hardly noticed there was music there, it was that bland... and not only does it sound rushed, with way too many repetitions, it also sounds like a sample-library-MIDI-score from about the late 90s. I have heard B-movies with a better-sounding and better-produced score. The armor. Yeah, I know, WOW is well_known for ridiculous armor, its like a big inside jokes. Gigantic shoulderpieces etc. However, that's not the point here. The armor here looks ridiculous, like plastic with a tiny bit of gloss on it. It looks cheap. I heard some guys from WETA were involved here and I imagine that going like this: "Hey guys, so you make a fantasy movie? So OK, here is how you make armor, this is how you make it look a bit worn-in, here is to make it look like something smithed by hand and having been used" Reply: "Oh cool. Yeah. We don't have the time/patience/workforce/money for this, so let's make some casts, pour plastic into those, done". I was almost reminded of the props in movies like Flash Gordon seeing some of the plate armor in here.The movie takes itself much too seriously. We all know that WC and WOW always had some silliness to it, that's part of it. And the slapstick-like little bits with Lothar and Khadgar were not like that. The only FUN scene was the hyper-aggressive gryphon in the end, when that went to work on the orcs in the background while Lothar again was over-acting in the foreground. I didn't care at all about what happened to these people. Everything was so rushed, so crammed, so it was hard to feel anything when someone died. I know that the "this movie has no warmth/no heart" is criticized as something critics use when they have nothing else bad to say or whatever. However, I have played these games and still love them, I have spent so much time in Azeroth, have read and experienced these stories. And to me, this movie feels dull, bland, cold, overstuffed, badly paced, badly written, badly scored, rushed and undecided whom it wants to be for. It's not quite as bad as I thought when I saw the trailers, but a 4/10 isn't exactly awesome, and it gets those points because you can tell they actually tried to do well...but IMO failed.
__label__4 WarcraftAfter being a fan of the game, and having read a lot of the Novels on the lore it was kinda expected that I would go watch Warcraft the movie. Did I have a lot of hopes? Not really, they normally always find a way to butcher a game movie. In fact that's always been the case where games and movies don't match that well. This movie was not that different from my expectations. The acting was really bad, the script was really bad, the sequence was really bad. The Lore was sub par as far as the story went, in fact it was distributed by Blizzard so they had to get that part right. But the casting was poorly done, and the actors don't portray the lore that well. The only good part about this movie was really the effects, which I have to say was spectacular. The visuals were very well done, the CGI was very realistic, I mean you can tell the bulk of the budget went in the visuals and not the actors.I would recommend this movie to fans of the game still, it's worth a least 1 watch even if it wasn't that good. I would not recommend it to anyone who's never played the game. The story is fast paste on the lore which expects the audience to already know a background of who people all.I give Warcraft a 4/10
__label__4 In 1984, fans of sci-fi with action were surprised by "Terminator", one of the best films of this genre in the cinema industry. Followed by the excellent sequel "Terminator 2: Judgment Day" (1991), the franchise apparently ended in 2003 with "Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines". However, in 2008, it was released the series "Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles" that also worked well showing how Sarah and John Connor survived along the years. In 2009, the exhausted franchise was revived by Hollywood with "Terminator Salvation". Unfortunately "Terminator Genisys" is a typical example of the present days of Hollywood that insists in destroying great films from the past with the mediocrity of the present writers. This time, the studio does not only destroy the franchise but also the character John Connor and the initial vulnerability of Sarah Connor. The number of inconsistencies and paradoxes in the "butterfly effect" of the story is amazing. The best part of this movie is the smile of Pops. My vote is four.Title (Brazil): "O Exterminador do Futuro: Gênesis" ("The Terminator from the Future: Genisys")
