__label__7 AWE was a decent close to the trilogy (although they did leave it open for the possibility of a 4th).Lets go down the list: 1) Holy cow. The CGI is breathtaking. The details on the sets is just as breathtaking. The filming sites were beautiful. These are a talented group of folks I tell ya. GREAT job.2) Acting .. both good and bad. Sparrow, Barbossa, Beckett, Norrington, Jones, and Gibbs provided some very good acting and funny moments. However, they were offset by Pintel and Ragetti (they got annoying in the 2nd film and it didn't stop here. While I enjoyed the idea of Tia Dalma's character, I wasn't impressed with the performance by beautiful Miss Harris. I haven't especially liked Keira all that much in other things she has done and it was the same here. Decent actress but not overly impressive. Stellan's portrayal of Bill Turner was decent enough but a notch down from what we KNOW he can do. Now the best for last. Im a 100% hetero male and even I can say that Orlando Bloom is a VERY good looking guy. But for the love of pete, this guy is one of the most terrible actors ever and strangely, he was cast in two of the biggest, most profitable trilogies ever. He has essentially played the same character in every movie, just with different costumes. His mannerisms, his low "sexy" voice, his facial expressions .. ALLLL the same, all the time. Sooo blahhhhhhh.3) The story was good but there was too much of it. It has been said here but I will say it again. At one point, I just stopped trying to follow along and just enjoyed it. Everyone stabbed everyone else in the back at least once. It wasn't "hard to follow" but a movie like this isn't supposed to make you think. You want that, go see .... Clue :P the whole Singapore thing was just unneeded. While it did add a new element to the film, it just seemed too forced.4) Running time was a tad bit long but it passed fairly quickly due to the great action sequences.All in all .. I was impressed with the movie, but it has its problems. Much like part 2.I say go and see it. You wont be disappointed but you wont walk out thinking you just saw a masterpiece either.Just my thoughts ...
__label__7 Less than a year after the previous installment of the popular pirates trilogy, Jack Sparrow and company return in Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End. The film should be great, given a three hundred million dollar budget, huge anticipation, and the closure a third installment inevitably brings to a series. While this film does show its budget and is quite visually arresting, it lacks a fair share of resolution to the trilogy and confuses with its overflowing exposition rather than purely existing to entertain.Even in an action packed pirate movie, overly chatty sequences will simply bore audiences just because it's too hard to follow what exactly is being said. The movie really just had too many vague or unnecessary plot points that didn't affect the main plot at hand.All the acting was perfectly fine, with Johnny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow and Geoffrey Rush as Captain Barbosa unsurprisingly being the standouts. The introduction of Depp's character in the pirate equivalent of Hell called Davy Jones' Locker is a particular favorite, as well as the scenes at World's End, which somehow involves a giant, deep waterfall. Keith Richards' hyped cameo as Jack's father is nothing to go crazy for, he does a decent job, but his screen time lasts only about two minutes.Director Gore Verbinski and his crew knew going into this that the reviews would be mixed and the plot would be confusing (in order to encourage repeat viewings), but honestly, at nearly three hours, the more the film confuses you the more it becomes an endurance test. Also, rather than providing a satisfying conclusion to the series, the end opens up the possibility for a fourth installment, which might not even happen. The crew put every penny of the film's budget on screen, made evident in the hour or so of its bloated climax. The film looks and feels like a true epic, shots are wide, locations are vast, costumes are extravagant, and the scope is large. However, the film needs to scale down its plot in order to let the characters we fell in love with stand out and shine, as that's what makes these films unique.
__label__7 Once you start downhill, it's difficult to halt the momentum. So to apply this metaphor to the world of cinema, once a film franchise delivers a poor entry, it's almost impossible to not deliver poor ones from then on out. So, imagine the surprise when, after the lackluster Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest, that screenwriters Ted Elliot and Terry Rossio and director Gore Verbinski are able to deliver a superior third entry in the Pirates series with Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End. It is hardly perfect, still far too long and lacking in emotional depth, but for a summer spectacle, it still manages to deliver the goods to a degree.At World's End opens not long after Dead Man's Chest, with Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) and Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightly) joining forces with recently resurrected Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush) to rescue Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) from Davy Jones' locker, where he was dragged to by the Kraken at the conclusion of the last film. While they are on their way to the afterlife, Lord Cutler Beckett (Tom Hollander), has exerted his influence over Davy Jones (Bill Nighy) and is using him to bring the pirates of the world to their knees. With their very existence on the line, the pirate lords meet to discuss the possibility of joining forces to combat Beckett, but since these are pirates, there is a wide variety of skullduggery and backstabbing to be had.Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End is rife with dazzling visuals. As with both previous films, At World's End has spent it's almost-certainly astronomical budget on what actually goes on the screen. The sets, costumes, and stunning visual effects are impressive, to say the least. You might be excused for actually believing that what you are seeing is real at times, not just movie trickery. The make-up artists have also once again proved that they can be the go to guys for the creation of unappealing looking characters, as almost no one in Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End looks like they have taken a bath or brushed their teeth, well, ever, which, in this case, seems to work for the film. If you want to see a visually spectacular motion picture, especially on the big screen, you need look no further than At World's End.On the other hand, if you are interested in depth to go along with the glittery outside, then At World's End will prove to be somewhat lacking, although not nearly as much as Dead Man's Chest. The key problem to this film is that the characters are underdeveloped. Most of what makes them up is played out again without much added to the proceedings from the previous entries: Jack wants everything for himself, Barbossa wants what Jacks wants also, Will wants Elizabeth and Elizabeth wants, seemingly, to be a pirate. Frankly, it's a bit sad that the character with one of the best emotional arcs in the film is one of its villains, Davy Jones, who has an almost touching degree of pathos added to him thanks to a scene about halfway through the film. Perhaps it is the film's never ending attempt to keep the audience uncertain where the various characters loyalties lie that also works against the audiences' identification with almost anyone. When it seems that everyone is out only for themselves, it's hard to work up much enthusiasm for them.The film's cardinal sin, as has been the case with every Pirates entry thus far, is its bloated length. At World's End does not have nearly the lopsided running time to substance ratio that Dead Man's Chest did, but it still overstays it's welcome. Much like fellow summer blockbuster Spider-Man 3, the filmmakers seem to believe that bigger is better, and that is sometimes just not the case. In the film's defense, there is quite of bit of plot to fill the minutes, but it could have still been trimmed back to some degree while maintaining, and perhaps even increasing, the entertainment value.That being said, At World's End still manages a few surprises, and the ending does pay off much of what has gone before, and even though the "love" between Elizabeth and Will seems almost non-existent, a key scene at the end on a beach does manage to be effective. The actors also generally deliver once again. Johnny Depp is entertaining as ever as Jack Sparrow, although he finds the screen time a bit split amongst the various other characters this outing. Depp seems to be having a good time in the role, and it's hard to not understand his public statements that he would be willing to go more rounds as the character. Rush is also effective as Barbossa and Keira Knightley shows a bit more energy than in the last entry, as does Orlando Bloom in the part of Will.So, what began as a seemingly bad idea (a Disney theme park ride turned into a summer film) has concluded three films later with one of biggest displays of blockbuster film-making, in terms of scope, as has been seen in recent years. That the spectacle isn't quite in service of an appropriate amount of core material is disappointing, but Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End is hardly a loss. It provides a decent amount of entertainment, buckets of eye candy and a good laugh here and there. While filmmakers should perhaps aspire to more, what they manage deliver isn't half bad. I suppose that might sound like damning with faint praise, but you just have to call them as you see them.
__label__7 Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End is the third and last of the money spinning trilogy, or so they say. Everything has led to this, or so they say again and I kept my mind opened. The first of the Pirates series, The Curse of the Black Pearl was good. It was a movie out of nothing or more correctly a movie inspired by nothing more than a Disney theme park ride. Having said that however the creation of Captain Jack Sparrow was nothing short of inspirational. Captain Jack played by the charismatic Johnny Depp became the talisman of Pirates of the Caribbean. Thought to be dead when we saw him charging into the jaws of monster octopus Kraken toward the end of Dead Man's Chest (the sequel), he is to be brought back from the dead in this latest film.I have to be honest; I hated Dead Man's Chest. Its various plots and subplots were terribly tangled and confusing. It was hard to follow what sort of story or motives the movie wants to say. I blamed my lack of understanding for not comprehending Dead Man's Chest. That was summer of last year but since then I have done my research, for the billion dollars making movie was to have a third installment. Having seen one and two, I have to see three. But if I do not understand two then how can I go ahead with three. And so after a better understanding of two I saw three. You should know this. For all my efforts I was still robbed by the pirates.I was led happily out into the open sea before being robbed. I was enjoying the first third of the 168 minutes film. Captain Jack's crew arrived in Singapore to look for Captain Sao Feng (Chow Yun-Fatt), pirate lord of the South China Sea for a ship and a map, so they could sail to world's end and rescue our favourite captain from Davy Jones's Locker. Davy Jones's Locker is a ghost realm of the netherworld where the dead Captain Jack Sparrow is being kept for eternity.There appears to be some oriental influence in At World's End. Firstly of course we are introduced to a Chinese pirate, Captain Sao Feng. Secondly, the costumes and all were very well designed in an exquisite oriental fashion. And there was Singapore, a South East Asian country where Captain Sao Feng can be found.The Singapore set features a bathhouse and I couldn't help relating it to Japanese animation master Hayao Miyazaki's Spirited Away. The popular animated film, released by Disney in the west has a bathhouse theme. The relation did not stop there, and I wondered if the scene where Captain Jack Sparrow is isolated in Davy Jones's Locker was inspired too by Hayao Miyazaki's work. The part where thousands of strange and curious yet harmless rounded stone-like crab helping Jack move his ship, The Black Pearl across a desert aroused my attention to this perspective. It was through the hands, eyes and imagination of the acclaimed animation master, Hayao Miyazaki that made famous the approach of detailing stories with thousands of mini little intriguing creatures. And it was fun to watch.I was enjoying At World's End, laughing merrily at all the pirate jokes that the characters are lashing out at one another, feeling the thrill of the sword-fights and of course attracted to the sometimes witty, looney and mad character of Captain Jack Sparrow. That scene of him engaging himself to his many different personalities while alone in the deserted Davy Jones's Locker is a real gem.But with all the oriental influences, the filmmakers probably did not take note of the teachings of Zen, where less is truly more. For when after the crew rescued Captain Jack Sparrow and brought him back to the mortal world, it all happened again. The tangling and confusing plots and subplots manifested once more and killed whatever is good about the film. In my opinion, if At World's End had ended after rescuing Captain Jack and had a straight approach in the gathering of forces to deal with Lord Cutler Beckett (Tom Hollander) and Davy Jones (Bill Nighy) with a fitting spectacle of a finale fight, the film would have been great.I was trying to understand the story. In reflection I probably should not for it amounted to nothing. It just isn't worth it. It would be tiring for me just to list them all out. So just be warned that in the film, every character have their own personal agenda. It is "me" first and "you" later if "you" are still there. If that is the purpose of the story-writers to represent the meaning of how pirates are, then they have succeeded. In fact it was so successful that they lost me.It bored me so much I no longer laughed at the jokes. It dragged on so long I no longer felt compelled to see the ending. I just want the film to end there and then. Enough was enough."Take whatever you can and give nothing back." Thanks a billion, filmmakers, or is it thanks me instead?This entire Pirate series is like a ride on a pirate ship in a theme park, it was thrilling for a start but as it swing back and forth too many times the nauseas will come and when it stops you find yourself displaced nowhere.Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End is a fine example of a good film gone bad because it had too many tangling tales to tell. I maintain that it is worth watching for the first third of the film but save yourself from seasickness in the middle just so you can enjoy the spectacular fight sequence toward the end.
__label__7 Nice entry stars Daniel Craig as the tough, two-fisted James Bond who takes on nasty organization nicknamed Spectra with a octopus-like symbol . After a risked and disastrous assignment in Mexico, Bond is suspended. But he goes on his activities by tracking down a massive criminal syndicate. Then Bond receives a cryptic message from his dark past, it sends him pitted against a sinister and criminal group. It is led by a terrorist chief, Blofeld : Chistoph Waltz who has an ancient relationship with Bond's own childhood. While Q , Ben Wishaw, delivers him some rare and fantastic artifacts to carry out his dangerous missions. Shortly after, MI6 chief M : Ralph Fiennes is replaced by another boss, Andrew Scott. Later on, Bond meets the beautiful daughter, Lea Seydoux, of a long time enemy and then things go wrong.Once again Bond confronts an ominous and bloody organization with terrorist purports . This film takes parts of other 007 episodes as the violent fight between Bond and a hunk contender : Dave Bautista on a train , similar to Sean Connery versus Robert Shaw in From Russia with love. And the impresssive finale including the stronhold facility in the sunny desert and its destruction bears remarkable resemblance to Quantum of solace. Nicely played by Daniel Craig, this is his fourth entry, first was Casino Royale, following Quantum of solace and Skyfall. He is well accompanied by a young Bond girl, Lea Seydoux, and another Bond woman, the mature Monica Bellucci, the eldest Bond girl. The heinous leader of the powerful organization Spectra is magnetically performed by usual villain Christoph Waltz. Adding regulars of the old franchise as M well played by Ralph Fiennes, Q finely acted Ben Wishaw and Naomy Harris as Moneypenny.The film packs a colorful and glimmering cinematography by Hoyte Van Hoytema, shot in various locations as Mexico city, Austria and especially in London. As well as pounding and rousing musical score by Thomas Newman. The motion picture was well directed by Sam Mendes, though with no originaly. Mendes is a good director who has made some successful films played by important actors, such as : Jarhead, American Beauty, Revolutionary road, Road to perdition and another Bond movie : Skyfall. Rating: Above average. Well worth watching.
__label__7 First off, let me get something out of the way here: I like to be entertained. Entertainment, as we all know, comes in different shapes and sizes; it can be smart, profound, intellectually stimulating and so forth – or it can just be escapist fun. Now what kind of entertainment you expect from a James Bond film is up to you; as for me, I go with fun. Regrettably, the last three 007 instalments fell a bit short in that department (at least for my taste), and since I expected this new film to be more of the same, I didn't exactly get my hopes up. Well, I can only say I was pleasantly surprised (although judging from most reviews here, I seem to be in the minority). Instead of further exploring the somewhat dark, dramatic route the previous three films took - which, I must admit, worked very well in Casino Royale - Spectre unexpectedly goes in the exact opposite direction. Sam Mendes and John Logan apparently came to the conclusion that it was time to bring back one of the most crucial ingredients for Bond's success with audiences over the years: the fun.Don't get me wrong; it's not suddenly ALL fun and games for Her Majesty's finest spy (and Craig still portrays him as a character driven by inner rage) - but the new film is a virtual celebration of the whole James Bond universe, from past to present, including the less grounded and over-the-top elements from the older films. In fact, after a stand-out intro sequence in classic fashion, the spy with a license to kill takes us on a ride which - tonally - feels like travelling back in time to the glory days of such classics as You Only Live Twice, Goldfinger or From Russia With Love (and it's a ride back in time in more senses than one).This is supposed to be a spoiler-free review, so I won't go into any of the story details, but what unfolds after the introduction plays like a combination of the more grounded, serious Bond we've come to associate with Daniel Craig's films, and the more self-aware spy-romps of the Roger Moore era. It's a mix that doesn't always work and tone and pacing can be a bit uneven at times (especially during the third act), but Spectre largely succeeds in paying homage to many of the classic Bond films while still delivering the gritty action people come to expect from the newer instalments and staying true to the character Craig has so successfully made his own. And despite all the references and callbacks to classic 007 adventures, Spectre still manages to continue the storyline of the three previous films. So while his second entry in the world's longest living franchise is far from a perfect film, I believe Sam Mendes achieves exactly what he wants: he intentionally embraces the old Bond formula, but he also plays with it, twists it and introduces new story elements. So my verdict: Spectre is a love letter to the classic Bond films, and while it might not be the masterpiece many people seem to have expected, there is a lot to enjoy here. It's a solid, almost classic Bond film with insane action, great set-pieces and a fantastic cast; upon first viewing, I'd rate it 7 stars out of 10.Rare Film Gems For Cinephiles: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/
__label__7 As this movie was the most awaited movie of the decade, I obviously wanted to watch it as soon as possible. My friend won some contest online and so, I got to watch it a few days earlier FOR FREE.The movie is everything you want it to be. The story is very well told and there is enough of Nolan-kind twists. Tom Hardy has some powerful lines as Bane but the enhanced voice doesn't work at all. But, he still does his character justice and performs to his full potential. For the first time in the trilogy, Batman wasn't the strongest. This gave a chance to Christian Bale to show off his acting skills without the mask and he did a fine job. The veterans Gary Oldman, Morgan Freeman and Michael Caine went about their job as if it was just another day at the office. But, a major surprise was Joseph Gordon-Levitt who portrays an ordinary police officer and pulls of an unexpectedly awesome performance. The special effects, sound and action were out of the world. Nolan spent a lot of money and he made it visible in the movie. The movie connects all the dots from the previous movies and provides a fitting end to the saga. Although, personally I liked The Dark Knight better. But, TDKR certainly came very close it.Finally, I would like to thank Christopher Nolan for portraying Batman in a way no one ever thought was possible and for making one the best trilogy of all time.
__label__7 While it does at times tiptoe on the line of being an epic and brilliant work of cinema, SPIDER-MAN 3 is also a big case of overkill. There's way too much going on, and it just seems to keep on coming.After a somewhat shaky series of opening scenes (with that voice-over narration by Maguire still being as lame as always), the movie quickly finds its balance. It isn't until the symbiote subplot (involving the black Spidey suit) gets into full swing that things become a little too hectic. Director Sam Raimi pulls off an incredible feat by making the never-ending onslaught of subplots balance as well as they do, but the pieces still don't fit to the extent that you'd hope. There's enough plot here for two or three different movies, with plenty of obstacles for Peter to overcome and an ample amount of baddies for him to fight. But in putting the four main plot lines together (i.e., revenge against Sandman, Peter's relationship with Harry, the symbiote suit/Venom, and problems with MJ), the whole experience becomes overwhelming. There's not nearly enough time to absorb all the intertwining threads, no matter how hard the filmmakers obviously try to make it work.That's not to say this is a bad movie. Far from it. In fact, despite its shortcomings, this picture still marks one of the most fun times I've had at the movies. It wasn't even until after I left the screening that I started to realize how many problems it had. I bet a large percentage of moviegoers will feel the same, being so taken aback by the constant action sequences and stream of story lines that they never even get a chance to notice the film's problems. That's the good news. Bad news is, there's no way these issues will go unnoticed upon repeat viewings. While SPIDER-MAN 2 seems to just keep getting better with each consecutive viewing, I see this one coming up short. It's still less problematic than the first film (which already feels a bit dated), but it just can't compete with the damn near flawless second.One of the few complaints I had with SPIDEY 2 was the "raindrops are falling on my head" sequence. It was silly and awkward, not fitting well with the rest of the film's style... Well, this sequel tops it. After the symbiote takes over Parker, there's a lengthy montage sequence of him (now turned emo) strutting down the street, dancing around and pelvic thrusting at women. It's basically him hopping about to music while looking like a jackass. And it gets worse. He goes with Gwen Stacy (a hot but disappointingly extraneous character) to a club, where MJ is currently working, and basically reenacts the scene from ANCHORMAN where Will Ferrell starts randomly playing the trumpet and hopping across tables. There are slight differences, of course; this one involves a piano and groovy dance moves. But the outcome is the same, leaving audience member's mouths agape at the uncomfortable hilarity. They really should've saved that scene for the DVD outtakes. Then it'd at least be fitting.Fortunately, the whole movie isn't plagued by scenes like these. It's only rarely that things start getting ridiculous or cheesy to the point where you can't help but roll your eyes. The other problem comes in the way of bits of awkward dialog and rushed character development. There's about an 80% hit rate where everything in the script is as smooth as can be, but that last 20% block does hurt the a few vital aspects of the storytelling. Particularly when it comes to fleshing out character motives and emotional conflicts (something that was given almost complete focus in the first two movies).At least the action sequences stand strong as some of the most spectacular since... well, SPIDER-MAN 2. They take full advantage of the characters' abilities and surroundings, and then fuse the two together to create a number of downright breathtaking moments. The CGI isn't quite flawless yet, but it's still a visual feast for the eyes. The only disappointment is the use of Venom. He does get some time to shine in the movie's third act (or possibly ninth, taking into account how many different stories overlap), but Topher Grace removes all of the character's menace. It really hurts me to write that, considering how wonderfully handled everything was concerning Brock's character before that point. But alas, despite Grace's strong and amiable efforts, his voice is just too awkward coming out of Venom's mouth. And all they needed was some slight voice alteration to fix the problem. Drats.SPIDER-MAN 3 may not be a flawless endeavor, but it's certainly epic. Raimi and company reach for the stars, and instead end up making it halfway across the universe. It's one bumpy and crazy ride getting there, but when things go well, they go really damn well. And while some movie trilogies end on a note that make you yearn for one last installment to redeem the series (I'm looking at you, X3!), we should be so lucky to get a conclusive finish to the SPIDER-MAN series. Almost brings a tear to my eye.
__label__7 Venom, Green Goblin 3 and Sandman.Spiderman 3 reworks these three epic story arcs into a single feature length film. Impossible? Well... some of the reviewers here on IMDb seem to agree. I, however, do not. I went into this film with some trepidation and reasonable expectations. The Venom saga has been, since it first appeared in print, one of my all-time favorite multiple issue story arcs in comics. How this story could be made into a film following in the somewhat less weighty footsteps of Spiderman and Spiderman 2 was hard to imagine. The film did justice to the story-line - keeping almost all of its dark thematic content, while modifying its plot points and reducing its heavy depressive tone in order to keep the film entertaining and fast-paced. But don't expect this to be the same lengthy exploration that the comics provide.Sam and Ivan Raimi can add this to their long list of satisfying films.Briefly, Spiderman is having his normal share of growing pains. His love for MJ is now matched by his self-absorption and his addiction to heroism. Of course Harry still wants to kill him to avenge his father's death, and somewhere out there is his uncle's killer - who is about to become The Sandman. Just as things really start to fall apart, his costume turns black and develops a sinister aspect. He becomes more powerful, more ruthless, and a more conflicted being than the hero he had been. And Peter even dons black eye liner and a decidedly emo haircut. Unlike most recent comic book adaptations on the big screen, the story (to this point) offers plenty of room for humor, which Raimi could never pass up. J. J. Jameson and Bruce Campbell's excellent cameo are pure comedic relief from the somewhat heavy subject matter that seems immanent throughout this film. You'll laugh... you'll cry... You'll fall in love, if you can handle a new take on the classic Venom tale, with some worthwhile additions.Things go from bad but kind of funny to worse and pretty serious. The film explores emotions more than any superhero film I have thus far seen - with the possible exception of the original Punisher. It nicely studies Spidey's humanity, ego, fallibility, and his previously unexplored dark side, and forces our hero to confront all three both symbolically and physically in order to redeem himself.Tobey Maguire turns in his best Spidey performance yet, and is excellently supported by Kirsten Dunst and Rosemary Harris. James Franco turns in a great interpretation of Harry - much needed for this story-line. This cinematography is more wide-open and hyperbolic than the previous Raimi Spiderman films - as one would expect given the storyline. It is not surprising that the film went a little beyond the pale in terms of special effects - again unavoidable given the subject matter. But the CGI did become a little distracting towards the end.I have read a lot of disappointed reviews of this film, but honestly, I found much to praise and very little to complain about. Highly recommended especially for Venom fans.
__label__7 The task of bringing together Earth's mightiest heroes took Joss Whedon into uncharted territory with 2012's "The Avengers," and, despite the weight of the Marvel Cinematic Universe on his shoulders, the results were staggeringly entertaining. The task of making a sequel to that ground-breaking, monumental event film, however, and being expected to deliver on par or better results, is an entirely different beast."Avengers: Age of Ultron" was definitely built on the bullet point takeaways of "The Avengers," which are: Make time and space for wit, banter and humor for the sake of humor to prevent the film from taking itself too seriously; give each character a story arch and independent moments; choreography clever action sequences with well-timed glory shots. These components are in full force in "Ultron" and make enjoying the blockbuster as easy as shoving a lollipop in your mouth.Yet "Ultron" is infinitely more complex than its predecessor. The number of heroes featured barely fits into a single action figure play case, meaning more subplots and back story, in addition to creating an arch of the creation and life of Ultron itself. With a plot that takes the Avengers from the eastern European country of "Sokovia" to New York to the African nation of "Wakanda" to Seoul, South Korea to Sokovia again, much of "Age of Ultron" is a non-stop blur.The film opens with the Avengers leading an assault on a secret HYDRA facility where they have located the staff that Loki used to lead the Chitauri invasion in "The Avengers." When they secure it and bring it back to New York, Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) and Bruce Banner (Mark Ruffalo) discover that its power source contains a blueprint for artificial intelligence, which would allow Stark to proceed with his Ultron project, an initiative to create peace-keeping robots that could defend the world in place of the Avengers should another alien invasion occur. When Ultron (voiced by James Spader) becomes conscious, however, he interprets his peace-keeping instructions as an imperative to wipe out humankind.Added to the mix are the Maximoff twins, Pietro (Aaron Taylor-Johnson) and Wanda (Elizabeth Olsen) – also known as Quicksilver and Scarlet Witch – who decide to serve Ultron, with the latter using her powers to give each of the Avengers dangerous visions that could tear them apart.The fight scenes and action sequences are in such abundance in "Ultron" that it's impossible to remember them all, and the ones that are most distinct, such as Iron Man chasing down and taming a rampant Hulk using his Hulkbuster armor, are ancillary to the narrative of finding what Ultron is up to and stopping it. In other words – it's all for show. The creativity of the fight choreography also gets lost in the whirlwind of action. Captain America (Chris Evans) probably does 12 different awesome things with his shield, but they happen so fast you'll be hard pressed to recall any one of them in detail. Really clever sequences are only as fun as the build-up and payoff and those pieces are given no time to breathe.Whedon does allow for pauses in the chaos, such as the swanky Avengers Tower party featuring the film's best scene, when each Avenger tries his hand at lifting Thor's hammer, or a quiet retreat to an unexpected safe house in the countryside, but it's simply a trade- off: instead of busy action sequences, we get character relationship dynamics and back story."Ultron" is inundating, to be frank, but for the everything-but-the-sink mentality, it's carried by its sense of humor and a cast whose members have each proved themselves time and again to be magnetic both on their own and as part of this team. Some of the novelty has worn off, but seeing all these characters together remains a treat that even the most convoluted of stories cannot entirely dismantle. Marvel Studios truly proves with "Ultron" the credibility that it has built with fans, to the point that even when it gets a little ambitious and mettles a bit more (you can easily see Whedon at odds with them in this final cut), its reputation remains intact and the fans placated.As "Phase III" begins, adding even more characters to Marvel's cinematic universe (and even sliding Spider-Man into the mix) en route to the two-part "Avengers: Infinity War" slated for 2018 and 2019, it will be interesting to see if Marvel Studios barrels along into more unwieldy but delicious chaos, or reins it in a touch. Either way, should be fun.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit Movie Muse Reviews for more
__label__7 I have been counting down the days since they moved this movie from its original release date. As the characters have grown older, the story line gets better, and I was hoping the same would go for the sixth movie. However, I am still completely confused about the decisions made for this movie. The movie is two and a half hours of ridiculousness. Yes, it has fantastic effects, and humor about the raging hormones, but who cares if the integrity of the story is completely diminished. Let's make a list of everything they cut out:1. The introduction of the new Minister of Magic and all that happens between him and Harry. 2. Dumbledore coming to the Dursley's house to give them a piece of his mind. 3. Harry, Ron and Hermione seeing Draco in the dress shop, and Harry getting his first idea that Draco had been branded into the Death Eaters. 4. The invisibility cloak was absent in almost every important scene besides the train. 5. Slughorn's parties (the first of which that was on the train when Ginny gets her first invite.) 6. Tonks finding Harry on the train. 7. Tonks and Lupin's relationship 8. Several key memories that help Harry find the horcruxes in the 7th book. Also the awkward arguments between Dumbledore and Harry about Dumbledore's whereabouts and what happened to his hand. 9. Hagrid and Thwarp10. Harry finding out that everything that Sirius owned now belongs to him (including the house that serves as the hiding place in the 7th book) 11. Several of the Quidditch matches and how Harry ends up in trouble and has to miss the final match. THIS is when Harry and Ginny have their first kiss when she becomes the seeker for the team and helps the team win. 12. Harry and Ginny's relationship 13.Fleur and Bill's engagement, and are completely absent in the movie. 13. Madam Rosmerta's role 14. Moaning Myrtle's role 15. THE FIGHT IN THE CASTLE!!!! ARE YOU KIDDING ME! The best part of the book and they cut it out. They deserved to be fired in my opinion. How could Rowling sign off on them doing this!? 16. Dumbledore's funeral17. Harry telling Ginny he could no longer see her...they couldn't have this scene considering they never showed them to be in a relationship.I'm sure there is a lot more, but you get the idea. All of these scenes were cut to add those that never even happened in the book. If you are an actual fan of the book, be prepared to be disappointed. If you haven't read the book, I'm sure it'll be great.
__label__7 Well, the wait is finally over. Batman and Superman are in a big screen film together for the first time in history. The result? A sloppy attempt at setting up the DC Universe. Batman v Superman has its moments though with great performances from almost every one and action that could rival Man of Steel, but it was difficult to not walk out of this film and feel overwhelmingly disappointed. For a film that finished filming over a year ago, you would think Zack Snyder and Warner Bros would make all the effort in the world to edit in and out the stuff that's important and tighten the movie, but that isn't the case. It's directed by the aforementioned Snyder and stars almost the entire Man of Steel cast along with Ben Affleck and Jeremy Irons as Batman and Alfred respectively. The performances are mostly great all around, including Amy Adams, who unfortunately felt out of place for most of the film. I have no problem with Adams' portrayal or the character of Lois Lane being in the film, but she was misused and overused here. She and General Swanwick from the first film have several small scenes that are used for us to find out more about Lex Luthor. But the problem is, it's a good 15 minutes of the film that could have shaved down to 3 or 4 minutes worth of scenes.Speaking of Lex Luthor, the casting of Jesse Eisenberg caused a big stew of controversy when it was first announced, and I think it was warranted. I've seen the film twice now and had different opinions both times. The first time I was entertained by Lex but also confused as to why they went the route they did with the character. The second time, I was annoyed by the performance and the over the top portrayal of what should be a menacing villain. A few scenes here and there had those classic Luthor aspects that I've loved from the animated series and films, but the tone they went with for Eisenberg's performance just doesn't work. There's little humor in an incredibly dark film, and Lex seems like he's from a completely different film. The other big problem the film unfortunately has is its title and marketing. Most of the marketing material was well done and proposed "the greatest gladiator match in the history of man", but the reality is that it's merely 10 minutes of a 2 and a half hour film. The fight itself is phenomenal. It doesn't hold a candle to the fight in the comic book/film "The Dark Knight Returns", but it's probably the best part of Batman v Superman. The focus was all over the place though. Everything from the fight onto the ending is good cinema, but man does it take a long time to get there. I actually sat in the theater saying to myself "I'm kind of bored right now". How in the world does that happen in a superhero film, let alone a Batman film?There are still plenty of great aspects to this film, however. Diane Lane has a few heart-warming and gut-wrenching scenes. Laurence Fishburne provides some good comic relief as the head of the Daily Planet, Perry White. Jeremy Irons gives us our most involved and bada** Alfred to date. Even Gal Gadot, another questionable casting choice, showed acting chops that I didn't think she had here and got me excited for the Wonder Woman film next year. Which brings me to the weirdest part about my feelings about this film. As many problems as there are, it didn't get me any less enthused for the future of the DCEU. Some few surprises in the film, tease Justice League which was neat. And I'm incredibly stoked for Ben Affleck's solo Batman film. With that said, I don't think I can get that excited for Justice League if Snyder still directs. I have to believe many of the directing and editing mistakes came from him. But perhaps even Warner Bros themselves needs to take some of the fault for giving Snyder too much reign? Another positive though was Hans Zimmer's score, unsurprisingly. I loved the way him and Junkie XL managed to weave in Superman's theme with the new haunting Batman theme.Ben Affleck may very well be the definitive Batman. Everyone knew his Bruce Wayne would be great but his Batman does not disappoint. There are scenes which rival the action in the Arkham video games in terms of style, creativity, and fluidity. I couldn't be more excited for Affleck to write, direct, and star in the solo film whenever it may come out.I honestly can't believe I'm sitting here typing an average review for a film that's one of my most anticipated of all time, but I am. There are plenty moments of pure greatness here, but for every incredible scene, there's an unnecessary or strange scene out of place. Sure, I enjoyed the film more the second time I saw it, but I just can't believe how sloppy of a filmmaking job this was. A missed opportunity for Warner Bros for sure.+Affleck+Action+Last 40 minutes are awesome+Zimmer's score+Performances-Except for the tonally off performance by Eisenberg-Sloppy editing-Slow and almost boring first half7.2/10
__label__7 The basic premise of Superman Returns is that Superman has returned from an unexplained 5-year absence to find a world that seems to be getting along fine without him, that the woman he loves has moved on and has a family, and that he is- at least in terms of any beings similar to him- completely alone. The amazing thing is, this is the least angst-filled, least melodramatic superhero film in the past 5 years or so. I think the recent trend has been to try to get audiences to empathize with their heroes more by making them more human and actually taking them seriously. Peter Parker battles some very serious demons and is in constant struggle with being Spider-man, the X-Men films are very serious and political and the latest instalment, "The Last Stand," featured some startling and emotionally wrenching revelations, and Batman, well, need I go on? So, here we have Superman in the first new film in almost 20 years. He has his issues, but unlike all the other Super heroes around, he seems to be very solemn about it all. After all, he is Superman, not Clark Kent; Clark Kent is his mask. Obviously a huge nitpick people will have is that Clark comes back the very, very same day as Superman and not one single idiot in the city of Metropolis seems to notice, right? Well, yes, that bugged me too, at first. But then, the more you think about it, that's just how Clark Kent is designed: completely forgettable (except by Jimmy), always in the background, and always overshadowed by the bigger story, which is Superman. David Carradine has a very great speech about Superman at the end of Kill Bill Volume 2 that justifies everything quite nicely to me, so I suggest seeing that if you haven't already. What this movie does a great job of doing is just showing this classic, iconic super hero doing what he does best: saving the day. There's something so refreshing about finally getting that clear view of Superman for the first time after he saves a planeload of passengers from certain doom, and saying with a smile: "Don't let this turn you off to flying, folks. Statistically it's still the safest mode of transportation." But that brings us to the actual plot. It goes for simple, safe, repetitive tedious, even? And, honestly, it's the kind of plot that just doesn't justify the runtime. Lex Luthor comes up with a ridiculous plan that even in the world of comic books is pretty hard to swallow. He compares himself to Prometheus, how he is so generous with the "mortals" by sharing his wonderful discovery, though planning on killing billions in the process. Lex obviously forgot the last half of that story, where Prometheus is punished and confined to terrible pain for all of eternity. But maybe that's the point. I mean, we all know from the very beginning Lex won't win, he's doomed to lose, that's just how it's meant to be: Superman wins and Lex loses. Written in the scriptures: is, was, ever shall be, in comic strips, TV shows, feature films, living in an ageless universe, for all eternity.Bryan Singer is obviously aware of this. Singer also directed X-Men 1&2, and I think his biggest problem as a director is that he lacks a sense of completion in his works. X-Men is not the kind of movie that you watch, and then once it's over, you want to watch it over again. It's the kind of movie that you watch, and then once it's over, you want to see the next one. The X-Men films were each done with the presumption that there would be a next instalment, and that's fine I guess if you like always being on the edge of your seat waiting for the next one, but when his Superman movie does the same thing and drags past the 2-and-a-half hour mark, there's a problem. If nothing else, the movie establishes that Superman is indeed back, and we should expect to see more of him in the future.Superman Returns is definitely a grand film. It's big, it's loud, it's expensive. I usually don't think to myself, 'hey that looks expensive,' when watching a movie, but I did in this case. It doesn't try for anything new or bold, it doesn't want to, and it's nice to see a super hero movie where the hero is the generic do-gooder, and helps mankind because he really wants to. That's why I think Superman garners more universal appeal than any others. But, honestly, the angsty heroes can be much more interesting. Certainly so with last year's Batman Begins, which I thought was a great, perfect movie, while I though Superman Returns was really good, but probably could have been better.My rating: 7.5/10
__label__7 Superman's back and there's gonna be trouble, hey na, hey na, Superman's back! Well, hey, if Batman can begin again, Supes can come back to Earth, so to speak, right? Only this time it's not the late Christopher Reeve or even George Reeves, it's relative newcomer Brandon Routh as the Man o' Steel. Seems he's been gone lo these past five years in deep space, checking the general vicinity of where Krypton once existed. (Astronomers reported they'd found traces of the planet, so off Superman went to check out his home; oddly, neither he nor the astronomers mentioned that he was leaving.) But now he's back, and so is, coincidentally, Clark Kent. After reunited with his Earth mom Martha (Eva Marie Saint), Clark returns to work at the Daily Planet, greeted enthusiastically by Jimmy Olson ( ) and less enthusiastically by Lois Lane (Kate Bosworth), who's really moved on. Seems Lois has fallen in love, gotten married, and given birth, all five years ago. Huh, how about that. Her hubby is now an assistant editor at the Planet and is conveniently the nephew of Perry White, played by the magnificent Frank Langella.Meanwhile, Superman isn't the only one making a comeback after five years; seems Lex Luthor, put away in prison for what was supposed to be many life sentences, is out on appeal, or something. Anyway, he's up to no good, and it involves killing billions of people and forcing the survivors to bow to him and lavish him with money and gifts and so on. Kevin Spacey plays Lex this time around, and he's a great choice - megalomaniacal without being hammy, which is a fine line. Makes one even forget the great Gene Hackman. (Of course, we all know the pitfalls of having a villain who has a stronger personality than the hero, don't we, Tim Burton?) So Supes is back, and Perry wants Lois to cover his return, but Lois wants to cover this weird blackout that affected pretty much everyone (notably, a Space Shuttle launch that winds up being saved by Superman, as you've no doubt seen in the trailers). Could the two issues be related? "You're reporters - find out!" Perry growls at his young charges.There have been scads of comic-book-related movies over the past decade or so, with varying degrees of success, and from what I've read of this one it was a bit of a disappointment, both critically and financially (it made $200 million in the US, but it cost $270 million to make). Having said that, though, I liked it. Plenty of great action, as you'd expect from a director like Bryan Singer (who left the X-Men series just to do this). For a change, the big action scenes don't feel particularly staged, as they can in superhero movies - you know, "Looks like it's time for Our Hero to.... uh..... lift a train with his bare hands!" and so forth. There were a few "ooooh" scenes that had me gripping the sides of my recliner, especially the plane-about-to-crash scene.Routh was pretty good as the Man of Steel: taciturn and resolved but conflicted and isolated. Watching him, I got the impression that there was more going on in his head than there ever was in Reeves' mind; hey, I'm sure Christopher Reeves was a heck of a nice guy, but he wasn't a terribly good actor. His acting style was more cartoony than realistic, and nowadays that's not a good style, even for a comic book movie. But Routh looked the part and, even more importantly, sounded the part as well. (Look for a line from him that echoes his first meeting with Lois Lane in 1978's Superman: The Movie.) Spacey, of course, was a lot of fun as Luthor. Mean, evil, intelligent, with a touch of humor and glee - what more could you ask for in a supervillain? Of course, even Spacey can fall victim to a somewhat tepid script; I loved it when Luthor basically tells Lois Lane his evil plans. This information comes in useful for Lois later on. But regardless, at least Spacey didn't have Luthor laugh maniacally or gesture wildly. You know, hallmarks of cinematic madmen for decades.Bosworth was miscast as Lois Lane, though. She didn't look the part (check out her huge forehead - how come the set stylist didn't have a lock or two fall over her brow?), and she came off as whiny, petulant, conceited, and..... well, just plain annoying. Other actresses who could have done a better job are Keri Russell, Claire Danes, and Scarlett Johansson, all of whom were considered for the role. It's just a flat performance by an actress who looked at times to be a bit overwhelmed by the role.So, overall - not a disappointment. Not that awesome thriller that Spider-Man was, not as fantastic as the X-Men movies, not as mysterious as Batman, but still loads better than Daredevil, Elektra, and Fantastic Four. Some sincerely harrowing scenes and a solid performance by Routh lift this one enough to compensate for the weak female lead.***
__label__7 Quantum of Solace or Quantum so less, as some of its critics may call it, definitely lacks certain aspects of a traditional Bond movie. It may be eccentric in the sense that it may not be able to titillate the esoteric Bond fans as it may lack their eclectic style and taste but it definitely succeeds in projecting a new Bond for the contemporary world who may not be a coeval of a superhero, who despite being vulnerable has got the killer instinct in him, which is the very defining characteristic of Ian Fleming's larger than life human incarnate. This Bond goes about his business in a fashion which is far more realistic compared to the Bond of the bygone era with an incredible passion and utmost devotion which is nothing but inexorable. Though Casino Royale was the pioneer of this graduation but its Quantum of Solace that consummates it and gives Fleming's agent a mystique which has always eluded him hitherto, an aura which gives him an opportunity to be mortal and hence a chance to qualify to be called a human.Quantum of Solace is loaded with mind blowing action sequences which makes it a high octane extravaganza. The pace of the movie is such that you hardly get time to breathe freely. The plot though comparatively weaker than its precursor, is still good enough to keep one guessing thereby keeping one at the edge of the seat, all the way through. The only aspect of the movie which should be under the scanner is its editing which is far from just and at times needless and severely annoying. A bit constraint editing under some meticulous vigilance could have done wonders and would have probably helped it, in its quest to be the best Bond movie of all time. All being said and given what we have, the movie fails to disappoint the audience and will surely redefine the very prerequisites of an action movie and will definitely serve as a benchmark for the movies in the years to come.http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/
__label__7 Is The Lone Ranger a great movie? Not really, but it is relatively entertaining.Is the movie slow in the middle? A little, but not as bad as most critics would have you believe.The Lone Ranger is a bit long and does ask you to be patient at times, something that seems to be lost in the modern video-game world we live in.The strength of the movie lies squarely with Johnny Depp and his portrayal of Tonto. I seriously doubt that any other actor could have pulled it off. Depp deadpans through several one-liners, which gives us much of the movie's humor. In Depp's capable hands, the character of Tonto is both admirable and witty, with a charm all his own.The first part of the movie definitely gets us started with a bang. It does jump around quite a bit in the first few scenes, which seemed a little disjointed at times, but things are tied together well enough as the movie progresses.The middle of the movie is slower, but we are provided with many of the answers as to the back history of the characters, especially with Tonto and the villains. I will agree that the movie could have accomplished the same with five to ten less minutes, but that is certainly not an adequate reason, in itself, to skewer the film.And the last few scenes are the non-stop action sequences that most modern audiences love, although they do almost come off as cartoonish at times.As stated, Depp's performance is the single biggest selling point for this movie. I thought William Fichtner was very good as Butch Cavendish, the film's main villain. Tom Wilkinson, James Badge Dale, Ruth Wilson, and Helena Bonham Carter all lend excellent support.Of the movie's title character, I'm not sure that someone else other than Armie Hammer wouldn't have made a better Lone Ranger. That being said, the interactions and dialog between him and Depp's Tonto are enjoyable and occasionally laugh-out-loud funny. In many ways, this is a buddy movie, albeit with a bit of a twist.Perhaps, one of the main reasons critics dislike the movie is its title. For all intents and purposes, this is really a Tonto movie. It is more his story and told from his point of view. It probably should have properly been called Tonto. But I don't see that as being a bad thing at all.If you take it for what it is, The Lone Ranger is a reasonably entertaining film, with a very strong performance by Depp. And that was enough for me to give it a 7 out of 10.
__label__7 Quite frankly, I was highly skeptical on attending the screening of the hugely anticipated Johnny Depp, Arnie Hammer starrer The Lone Ranger, primarily because I am not such a huge fan of western movies plus a runtime clocking almost 150 minutes seemed to long to handle. Nevertheless, I decided to give it a try owing to the Depp factor and the director, Gore Verbinsky who has a pretty neat track record as a director.I haven't actually seen The Lone Ranger T.V series which aired from 1949-1957, so I pretty much knew nothing about the characters as such and went in with a clean slate, which in my opinion is a good thing as it removed unwarranted comparisons and biasness.Settling down in my seat and 10 minutes into the movie, I was hooked on. A spectacular opening scene, where the outlaws make away with their chief held captive and being transported on a train. The scene introduces us to the principal characters of the movie namely Tonto (Johnny Depp), John Reid (Arnie Hammer) and Butch Cavendish (William Fichtner). Verbinsky establishes his characters smoothly and seamlessly throughout the narrative which is definitely one of the high points of the movie. The entire story unfolds as Tonto, recounts the tales of his journey and how John Reid becomes The Lone Ranger. The two form an uncanny team to bring Cavendish to justice, each in his own manner. John believes in non-violence and the court of law and Tonto is just the opposite. The two share an electrifying chemistry and Depp gets his comic timing spot on as the quirky Tonto. Tonto, belongs to a native American warrior tribe, who feels responsible for the death of his fellow men and his family owing to a trade he made with two white Americans he saved from certain death when he was a child. John seeks revenge from Cavendish as he is responsible for the death of his ill-fated brother Dan Reid.(James Badge Dale).Inspite of its length, the movie never drags or feels lethargic at any point of time, instead it provides a good dose of laughter at regular intervals and Depp shines in those scenes. The scenes where the Native American, trades a feather or grains for everything he steals from dead people or the scene where the white stallion chooses John over his brother, and Tonton repeatedly tries to force the stallion to switch the selection, Depp is just fantastic.Depp rises above his co-stars with his impeccable comic timing and one liners. The best facet to his character is the fact that he is so unpredictable. You never know what is he going to do next. Arnie Hammer pitches in an earnest performance and nicely complements Depp. Despite, all its triumphs it does have a couple of blemishes. It's understandable that the entire writing revolved around the two principal characters, John and Tonto and I'm guessing due to the focus on these two characters some other supporting characters got sidelined. The sub plot involving Rebecca (Ruth Wilson) and her relationship with John is half baked and is not well developed. Similarly, Helena Bonham Carter as Red Harrington is unconvincing as the deadly leggie and neither does her character get enough screen time leave a mark.Barring the two minor hiccups, The Lone Ranger overall is a fine movie which is high on entertainment value. I would definitely recommend this movie to everyone who seeks a good time at the movies. Fun guaranteed!
__label__7 Johnny Depp has utterly redeemed himself in my mind from the disastrous "Dark Shadows". A great family film!! Excellent story and character build up - the way a GOOD story should be told. Somewhat in the fashion of Little Big Man in that it is told as a reminiscence. Armie Hammer was excellent as The Lone Ranger - the seemingly only bastion of decency and honesty in the Old West. Filmed in magnificent John Ford country - no totally indoor sets for this movie!! Which this story really could not have been told well without it being on location. The little spoiler comes next so stop reading if you don't want to read it. Excellent decision by Verbinski to really racket the action up at the exact point the audience hears "The Lone Ranger" song for the first time in the movie. From there on out it's a wild ride!! Johnny Depp at his deadpan best. This one I will spend to see again while it is still on the big screen!!
__label__7 This is not like all the previous Superman movies. This is not "Smallville". This is not the sequel of "Superman Returns". This is "Man of Steel"! This movie is awesome.I am not a big fan of Superman but this is the best Superman movie I've ever seen. (Christopher Reeve's version is also good, but this Man of Steel is better. And.. the Brandon Routh's version? Naaaaah...) The plot is really structural. Not so many flashbacks, so you won't get confused. The whole storyline is just really simple. It told the very beginning of Superman and then, yeah, his adulthood.The special effects here, I think it is as awesome as Marvel's Avengers. Yeah, alien and superheroes, what do you expect? Battle scenes are good, I can feel Zack Snyder "300" sensation in here.Henry Cavill succeeded bringing a whole new version of Superman to the big screen. He wiped out all our knowledge of the previous Superman movies and replaced it with a darker version of Superman (Nolan's kinda "darkness") This movie is enjoyable. See? There's still hope for DC Comics' superheroes movies.
__label__7 Months on after calming down and watching it again, I've decided to up my rating from 3 to 7.First of all, if you're a die hard Superman fan like myself. Then you might be slightly disappointed that this Superman doesn't share the same morals as his predecessors. Like the earlier movies Kal-El is born on the doomed planet Krypton. His loving father Dur-El rescues his son by sending him to Earth as a last resort to continue the Kryptonian bloodline. Kal-El grows up on a farm in Smallville with Super Powers and the name Clark Kent. This is where the similarities between Man of Steel and the Superman series end. Which is why it got a few peoples backs up.When watched with an open mind and seeing it for what it is (A whole new movie) it's actually very good. The specials are incredible though some times slightly overdone (Especially the shaky camera). The acting is top notch and Henry Cavill plays the role excellently.I think it's 7.5 Overall rating on IMDb is where this movie belongs and should be viewed by everybody.MY OLD REVIEW "If you can overlook any Superman film or series you've ever seen, put aside a million and 1 inconsistencies and watch with an open mind. Then this is the film for you. Superman is not just a man with superpowers but a man with strong morals that means more to him than his own life. Under no circumstances does Superman endanger the lives of civilians. The big battle will have killed thousands and thousands of people, and left millions injured or trapped. But "Superman" continues to throw Zod through buildings, without a care in the world for the people inside as the building collapses to the floor."
__label__7 Law and Order: Special Victims Unit is one of my favorite television shows, even though its gone a bit downhill lately. Is it the cast? No, because they are mostly intact. What is actually happening is that each of the main characters, known for their superb chemistry amongst each other, are suddenly spending less screen time with each other and more time to themselves. This story actually has a point. On Stranger Tides suffers the same fate: fantastic cast that don't spend as much time with each other as we hope. Add some pointless plot lines, a calmer first-third of the flick, and you have yourself the fourth installment of Pirates of the Caribbean.That being said, its still quite entertaining. On Stranger Tides follows a variety of people searching for the fabled Fountain of Youth. Unfortunately for us, its not just Jack Sparrow. We have Blackbeard, the Spanish, the British (led by Barbossa), Angelica, and more doing the same thing. Subplots pertaining to this quest include Jack's past with Angelica, Barbossa's questionable change in character, some random guy falling for some random girl (I am serious, this part was totally pointless), and the pointless Spanish people that flock in and out of the movie.This is by far the weakest part of the movie, the script. For some odd reason, they borrowed far too much from the novel (whose pacing and themes far differ that of the Pirates brand) and forgot that sometimes simplicity is best---which is what made Curse of the Black Pearl such a great film. It was the easiest to follow, and On Stranger Tides didn't learn from the previous two installments. To add to that, the script utterly separated everyone, even those with the best on-screen chemistry. Barbossa was barely with Jack Sparrow, Sparrow was rarely with his ex-lover, and worst of all reliable Gibbs spent minimal time with Sparrow. When they are together, the humor, the banter, tension, and the charm works well. When they aren't, well, the movie drags a bit.Thank goodness the cast is still on their game. Johnny Depp once again breathes life into the pirate movie with his smart, unpredictable, and hilarious portrayal of Jack Sparrow. Despite what the reviews say, Jack Sparrow's shtick isn't getting old as he is still a delight to watch. Geoffrey Rush once again shines as Jack's best rival Barbossa, as his quiet intentions resemble that of Sparrow in earlier films. Penelope Cruz adds a layer of sexuality that we definitely did not have with the other Pirates of the Caribbeans--it's just a shame she didn't have much time with Sparrow. Director Rob Marshall was able to shell out good performances from everyone in the cast, but he definitely wasn't the man for this job.Almost all the chase scenes or action sequences were done with very low-lighting and poor camera angles. With the exception of the mesmerizing and chilling mermaid sequence and the opening chase, all the action moments were missing that special touch. While the bizarreness of Gore Verbinski will not be totally missed (although his style worked perfectly in Rango), his ability to crank out excellent stuntwork and fights was sorely missing here. At least we got to see plenty of it, from the opening chase to the final dramatic (and short) showdown. Say whatever you want, but there has yet to be anything that can top the infamous three-way sword fight/old mill showdown from Dead Man's Chest.Bottom Line: Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides is a mix of frustration and fun. There was plenty of potential that wasn't met because of questionable plot lines, pointless moments, lack of chemistry (once again: writer's fault. Good going Ted Elliot and Terry Rossio), and uneven direction. All that banter aside, Pirates is also plenty fun with several delightful moments, funny lines, and much more action than the last Pirates flick. Johnny Depp, Penelope Cruz and company keep the movie afloat, and prevent it from being a pure bore. But I think the franchise works better when Verbinski is behind the camera. On Stranger Tides is decent summer entertainment, but doesn't have the inescapable magic and charm of the first two.
__label__7 I saw an advanced screening of this movie last night at the El Capitan theatre in Hollywood. I don't want to give away any spoilers, so all I'll say is that it was pretty darn good. By not having Keira Knightley and Orlando Bloom in it, the film didn't feel like just a rehash of all the other PotC films. Penelope Cruz and Ian McShane really added a lot to the film, and I loved Sam Claflin's performance. But of course you have to have Johnny Depp, because it wouldn't be PotC without him, and Geoffrey Rush was spectacular as always. All in all, this has everything you'd expect from PotC: swashbuckling, sea creatures, sword-fighting, and lots of great comedy; but the new cast members keep it feeling fresh.
__label__7 After a four-year hiatus to regroup and determine the future of the franchise, Disney and what was once its surprise mega-hit "Pirates of the Caribbean" series have returned in "On Stranger Tides." Hard to believe that this franchise evolved from the once-lambasted concept of a theme park ride being turned into a successful motion-picture blockbuster. After exhausting the "Pirates" world with two back-to-back sequels of titanic and rather disappointing proportion in 2006 and 2007, a break in the action to recalibrate Captain Jack Sparrow's compass was much-needed. The "new" course set by "On Stranger Tides" uses worn sails, but with a fresh wind of characters and more importantly, a more direct purpose.As promised in the end of "At World's End," Jack's looking for the Fountain of Youth if for nothing more than ships and giggles. First, however, he must take a side trip to London to rescue his old pal Gibbs (Kevin McNally) and subsequently the palace of King George (Richard Griffiths in a lovely cameo). There, he learns that his old pal Barbossa (Rush) has lost The Black Pearl as well as his leg and sold out to His Majesty's Royal Navy. He is to help the English find the Fountain before the Spaniards do. Jack, of course, knows the way there, thus continuing his ongoing role as an indispensable pestilence.After a familiar improvised escape, he crosses paths with an old lover, Angelica (Penelope Cruz), who he once deflowered before she was to take her vows at a convent. She mentions she has a ship he can borrow, only it turns out that it's her father's ship, the Queen Anne's Revenge, captained by none other than Blackbeard the Pirate (Ian McShane), a feared and soulless scourge with a minor in black magic. So much for smooth sailing.As overdone and cliché as the Fountain of Youth may be, it's perfect for the "Pirates" franchise and helps keep things very simple, something the last installment had more than a fair deal of trouble with. Only a few character subplots threaten to convolute the story, but all motivations lead to the Fountain regardless the reason. In fact, "On Stranger Tides" marks the first film to truly focus on Captain Jack. With Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley's characters out of the way, the franchise can keep the spotlight on the reason it's gotten four films deep. Depp has nothing new in store for us as the true center of attention, but by continuing to underplay the trademark quirks and mannerisms, he continues to prolong the deterioration of the Capt. Jack act. Some might disagree, but it depends how much you liked him the first place.In terms of new faces, Ian McShane is impeccable as Blackbeard. Rush gave a wonderfully theatrical performance as the main villain in the first film, but McShane introduces the first true quantifiable force of evil the franchise has seen. Although his voodoo abilities and reputation for killing his men and bringing them back from the dead to serve as his zombie slaves are never entirely realized, he's the merciless villain this film needed. He never fully crosses into scare-your-children evil, but he could've at any instant and that feeling radiates from his performance. In general, this film aligns itself more with fantasy and traditional folklore than the supernatural like the previous film.Among other new faces, Rob Marshall as the franchise's new director does serviceable work. The "Chicago" filmmaker chews the scenery well and creates effective moods and tones, but the action could have been a bit more inspired, especially considering the series' reputation for sword-fighting ingenuity.Marshall's best work and the film's best sequence deals with mermaids, not the singing and seashell bra type, but seduce you with their looks and then try and devour you with fangs type. Quiet, suspenseful and culminating in a full-on action sequence, the mermaids constitute the one completely fresh element of the film. Their cove is the lone stop on the journey as well, so it's the only aspect of the plot that creates that classic seafaring adventure feeling akin to Homer's "The Odyssey."Not much else deviates from the formula, so those hoping for a resurgence in the series or something as good as the first film, "The Curse of the Black Pearl," will remain wishful thinkers once again. It's hard to imagine where the series could go next without retreading over old ground or just introducing new characters for the sake of it, but Captain Jack Sparrow remains one of the few reliable comforts of blockbuster cinema, and any adventure with him at the wheel will struggle to be a total waste of time. "On Stranger Tides" makes just enough adjustments to the series to make for a successful installment.~Steven CVisit my site at http://moviemusereviews.com
__label__7 POTC-OST is not the best of the series, but it is a step in the right direction. If you, like me, were very disappointed with the third Pirates movie then I do not blame you for wanting to skip out on this one. In fact I was considering not seeing this one myself, especially when the critics reviews came out. I decided to give it a chance, primarily because I had seen the other ones. I was pleasantly surprised and ending up liking the movie. One of the major differences between this and the other Pirates movies (and it is one everyone is going to notice right off the bat) is that Orlando Bloom and Kiera Knightely are not in this movie. I am not too disappointed, there story overtook the third Pirates movie, which is part of the reason I did not like it. I was also sick of Knightely terrible speech scenes (if you saw the third you know exactly what I mean). Furthermore a few other pirates who were franchise regulars were missing in this one. What is left from the original three is Jack, Barbosa, Gibbs and the monkey makes two brief cameo appearances.There was a number of things wrong with the third Pirates movie, among them was the fact that it was long, or it felt long at least. This movie is the shortest of the Pirates films and it moves at a brisk pace. The third Pirates slowed down considerably in the middle, to the point it was almost unbearable to watch. This movie does not make that mistake. This movie is almost all action and because of this it did not feel long, at least in my opinion.As usual the effects were great. The action is almost nonstop and when there is no action there is enough going on to keep the audience interested. There is also plenty of signature Jack Sparrow humor. Since the previous two (especially the third) were focused almost entirely on the story of Will and Elizabeth Jack was almost forgotten. Another reason the third suffered. It was great to have that story out of the way, because this movie is focused on Jack and that is a strength.Despite the fact that it improved on a number of the things that made the third bad, this one still is not up to par with the original. It is a good movie all around. It is refreshing and reminds us why we liked these movies in the first place. I recommend giving it a shot, don't expect anything great, just know that this movie is superior in every way to the third.
__label__7 The movie was fun and Captain Jack Sparrow was at his best. But even though I enjoyed the movie overall because of Captain Jack Sparrow and the fun adventure, I do see what people mean by it feels empty. There are times when it just carries on with no sense of adventure in it. The second one was too long the third too many sub plots with a a messy script and too long, but they both had a sense of fun and adventure with memorable parts in Dead Man's Chest with the Wheel fight on the island, Jack and the crew escaping the cannibals was a fun action scene, Davy Jones and the Kraken scenes and with At Worlds End the fight scene in Singapore, the adventure to Davy Jones locker with the ship going through a ice cave, flipping the ship upside down, scenes with Davy Jones, and the epic last battle with the Pearl and Flying Dutchman fighting around a maelstrom. Gore handled the action scenes perfectly but the fault in them was that if they trimmed parts out and worked harder if could have been a much better film, but as were, still good adventures with a sense of fun. The beginning action scene in On Stranger Tides, I thought was fun as when they where trying to mutiny Blackbeard, but I thought the action scenes with Gore were funner and more arousing, not that on stranger tides were embarrassingly bad but not as edge of my seat fun action scenes as with the first three. This movie also provided memorable scenes, when we first meet the mermaids is going to be one of the most memorable scenes of the series, and the jungle scenes and fountain of youth and Jack escaping in London scenes look very good and cool. And like I said earlier Captain Jack is funny and having a blast in this. Going back to On Stranger Tides not having as many memorable set pieces, it does fix in having a shorter less all over the place feel. Captain Jack and Barbossa when together were great. I was little upset and felt I was going to be disappointed because of the reviews, so this movie had to prove me wrong and make me like it and it did, cause Captain Jack was silly/ witty and having fun and so was I. Did some parts feel like they weren't leading to places, yes and I would hire new writers because besides the first one there were faults with the script, its like if thats the ideas in the movie you want, build around that and make a better, sharper script. It might have faults like in the script and writing like the other two sequels but like those two it still has a sense of fun, this one being with Captain Jack at his best.
__label__7 These Pirates films are all about entertainment and thankfully this latest adventure with Captain Jack Sparrow at the helm is back to basics, reminding me of the formula that made the very first one, Curse of the Black pearl so great. Don't worry I won't give anything away here but be aware that the opening 20 minutes is one funny sequence and quirky one liner after another. There is also a couple of hilarious cameos, one may be familiar but the other was a right royal shock. Depp walks through his lethargic swaying pirate character with ultimate ease, while new high seas bad boy Blackbeard is exceptional, but not as cool as Sparrows former flame played by Cruz. She is foxy, feisty and funny. The action is elevated by some wonderful 3D effects but I am sure the film would be just as rocking without it. Finally, the highlight is the Mermaid scenes. As dark as they are, they take the viewer into their web of intrigue. Australian Gemma Ward even sings during an evocative moment. Remember to stay on after the credits for an EXTRA scene. After the last two installments left me crying with disappointment, I Loved it.
__label__7 It's been a decade since the last MIB film was released. We kind of missed the series even though Men In Black 2 wasn't really that good. In this sequel, it's pretty small and unnecessary but it still has the charms and bright imagination. Great Performances and Solid Visuals. It also has the same tone of the original Men In Black films. It's a wonderful action, adventure movie with non-stop enjoyment.Thankfully, it does not follow the modern blockbuster roots and stay loyal to its own. By the way, this is a comical action film. It may not be a large one but what matters here is the fun characters. Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones still got it but who shines here is Josh Brolin. He can perfectly imitate the facial expression and voice of Agent K and it's a lot better when he's around.The plot sounds like a generic time traveling story, but there are imaginative and wonderful sequences in these. The humor is still clever. There is still a heart. The action is not quite appealing but the time jump scene was spectacular. A lot of people will be rooting for the design of the villain, Boris the Animal. At first glance, you might think it's creepy but you'll realize how awesome he actually looks.Blockbusters like this are now obsolete. Our usual modern blockbusters are generic and bland cookie-cutters that are easy to be forgotten. This actually stays to its own kind. It's comical, it has life, it cares to the characters no matter how small and absurd the story is. Yes, it's small, but there are so many merits that are worth seeing. Either you're a fan of the series or not, you'll find it very enjoyable. The Men in Black series is still imaginative and fun.
__label__7 A decade away from the movie scene has given the Men In Black series a chance at a fresher, newer perspective. Taking its cue from Shrek Forever After, MIB 3 takes on a tired concept (time travel in this case) if only to acknowledge the failure of its dull sequel and take us back to a different era allowing us to view the franchise from an unsullied angle. The result is a film that returns to its roots and gives audiences the chance to relive much of what they first enjoyed – a smart, sci-fi, buddy comedy that embraces everything weird and wonderful about the unknown universe.In his first cinematic role in nearly 4 years, Will Smith's Agent J is the usual charming, witty wiseass we expect him to be. Still teamed up with the laconic Agent K (wrinkly Tommy Lee Jones) he is no closer to cracking his older partners deadpan demeanour but their relationship issues take a back seat when a nemesis from Kay's past, Boris the animal, turns up to exact revenge for having been imprisoned on the moon 40 years ago. His elaborate plan takes him back in the past, to the day he was caught, and sets ripples in the present, where K no longer exists and a different reality results. J has to then literally time jump (off the Empire State building no less) and fix the past for normalcy to return in the present.Directly Barry Sonnenfeld seems to find his groove once again with the zany and icky shenanigans that put him on the map with the original. Using plenty of the wide angle camera work that gave him fame as the Coen's favourite lenser, the resulting imagery should work wonders for those who decide to pay extra and catch the film on 3D (converted). Boris the animal is also a return to series villains being screwball and menacing in equal measure (remember Vincent D'Onofrio?) and Rick Baker's excellent makeup effects are both incredible and revolting. The big surprise is how well Josh Brolin impersonates Jones in the role of a younger K – which should not be a surprise considering Brolin's recent, impressive body of work as a bonafide actor, most notably in W. So chameleon-like is his performance that you forget it's him and actually completely believe it's just a younger version of Tommy Lee Jones that you're seeing.The films primary achievement and a true signal of its return to form though are the scenes set in the past. Not only is Josh Brolin a deadringer for Tommy Lee's K during his youth, but the hip musical vibes of the late 60's/early 70's allow for plenty of playfulness to ensue with a particularly hilarious segment devoted to Andy Warhol. If that isn't enough, everything very neatly ties into another epochal scientific moment from that time period and ends on a moment of curiously satisfying emotionality that provides not only closure to the film but the series as a whole. If that doesn't make you forgive all the wrongs that the sequel did and embrace this film as one of the years better movie franchise offerings the only thing that might work on you is a neuralizer.
__label__7 Well, whaddaya know, the "MiB" have gone MiA for 10 years already! No wonder many of us have forgotten about them as Men In Cape and Bodysuits (aka The Avengers, Batman, Spider-Man, et al) have been hogging the cinemas while the "Men In Black" go missing-in-action. No matter, they are still a barrel of fun in this three-quel that comes as more of a surprise than a treat that we have been waiting for.And with Barry Sonnenfeld back at the helm of this troubled and delayed US$215-million production, it is a nostalgic film in more ways than one.Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones reprise their roles as agents J and K of the secret Men in Black organization that monitors alien activity on Earth. The 'odd-couple' have their work cut out for them when extra-terrestrial serial killer Boris the Animal (Jemaine Clement) escapes from his maximum security prison on the moon and travels back in time to kill K. Since only J remembers K's existence, it's up to him to venture through time, look for a young K (now played by Josh Brolin) and stop Boris from destroying the world once and for all.I have never been a fan of time-travel plots and I still don't like them. However, the time-travel subplot here is just to provide the "Back To The Future" fantasy to the MiB franchise. The narrative, as well as the mood and tone of the movie, are light-hearted, fun and always on the outer limits of credibility. Again, it is nice to see how a deadpan face like Jones' can generate so much mirth. The Smith & Jones pairing is augmented by Brolin who gives a good representation of how K would be in the Sixties, with most of the sequences accompanied by popular Sixties hits on the soundtrack.One of the staple jokes of the MiB series is the celebrity cameos that suggest alien origins. In MiB3, we have a 'twist' that suggests a certain pop art personality is an undercover MiB agent! Still, the mainstay of the MiB series is Rick Baker's creature designs and make-up rendered in 3D. The 'monster show' does not disappoint, especially that of a huge fish that attacks diners at a Chinese restaurant. Oh yes, there are also a couple of cool gadgets and vehicles like the giant wheel hoover-bikes used by Agents J and K. On the whole, Agents J and K still provide the 'L'. - limchangmoh.blogspot.com
__label__7 The criminal Boris the Animal (Jemaine Clement) escapes from the LunaMax, a moon-based maximum security prison. He comes to Earth seeking revenge from Agent K (Tommy Lee Jones) that has blown his arm up and arrested him forty years ago and protected Earth from a Boglodyte invasion. Boris is defeated again and he travels back in time to 1969 to kill Agent K.When Agent J (Will Smith) notes that the time line has changed in the present days and Agent O (Emma Thompson) tells him that K died in 1969, he decides to travel to 15 July 1969 to save K on the next day. Agent J has difficulties to convince the Young Agent K (Josh Brolin) with lies, but when he decides to tell the truth, K believes in his words and they seek out Boris together. They are helped by the amicable alien Griiffin (Michael Stuhlbarg) that has precognitive powers and gives the ArcNet to K to protect Earth from the Boglodyte invasion. Further, J learns a secret about K and himself."Men in Black 3" is a great adventure of this franchise, with a wonderful story and magnificent special effects. I had low expectations with movie, but I was favorably surprised with an adorable film. My vote is seven. Title (Brazil): "MIB³ - Homens de Preto 3" ("MIB³ - Men in Black 3")
__label__7 In 1997, the first Men in Black came out. It was something no one had ever seen before: a sci-fi movie crossed with the buddy comedy and action genres? To this day it remains one of my personal favorite movies. However, I was disappointed with its sequel, Men in Black II. The film felt like a almost a carbon copy of the original. Ten years later, we have Men in Black III. It's quite a surprise to see this franchise after it was pretty much left for dead. But is it any good? Yes it is. Men in Black III is a fun movie, a cool and nostalgic trip down memory lane. It's not perfect by any stretch of the imagination, but it's still a blast.The film takes place in 2012, 10 years after the second movie. Agents J (Will Smith) and K (Tommy Lee Jones) are still partners, working for the Men in Black, a secret government organization which monitors all alien life on Earth. But one day, J goes to work and finds out that K was assassinated in 1969. J must then go back in time and team up with a young Agent K (Josh Brolin) to fix the future and stop an alien invasion.The cast is rock solid as always. Will Smith looks like he's having a blast as the cool, wise ass Agent J. Tommy Lee Jones plays Agent K, the expressionless, relaxed veteran. Jermaine Clement plays the films villain, the vicious Boris the Animal, and Emma Thompson is just alright as the new leader of the MiB, Agent O. But the real star of the show is Josh Brolin as a young Agent K. The whole movie you forget he's just an actor and believe he's really a 29-year-old K. His performance is very believable and well done.The special effects and makeup, some of the most praised parts of the MiB series, are very good. Danny Elfman's score is also top-notch, sounding very Men-in-Blacky (Is that even a word?). The set pieces too are very cool. You feel like you are in 1969, with not only New York City, but also a scene later in the film with the Apollo 11 mission taking off.However, the flaws of the film are in the script. The screenplay is very funny, and is well written, for the most part. The problems lie within the plot holes and goof-ups. The relationship between Agent K and O could have been fleshed out more. I was left unsatisfied with that plot line. For the goof-ups, there's one instance where J is talking to Young K, and he mentions "Jedi Knight Mind Tricks". K then looks like he knows exactly what he is talking about. That part of the film takes place in 1969. Star Wars came out in 1977. Whoops.Another problem with the film was that it was just too long. At some points during the film I was a little bit bored. They probably could have shaved off about 10-15 minutes of the film and it would be fine.In conclusion, Men in Black III is a surprisingly fun movie. It's very funny, very well acted, and very cool. Unfortunately the script and longer running time prevent it from being a classic like the first movie. Still, if you just want some great fun at the movies, definitely give MiB3 a go.
__label__7 Solid is the keyword. From the screenplay, to the cinematography and the performance, the film is based on solid grounding. Indeed, we couldn't imagine less from the people assembled on the project. And the first signs are indeed good, starting as an origin story that traces Robin's steps returning from the Crusades and arriving in Nottingham. The plot is immediately both compelling and fresh with regards to the well known tale.The first problem we run into is that the film never allows itself to linger. This creates two problems: the sense of purpose it reaches for through urgency has a tendency to be lost to aimlessness, and the characters never have the space to generate real depth of emotion.Imagine only this: Russel Crowe, Cate Blanchett and William Hurt together have collected three Oscars, and an additional nine nominations. Yet it it's hard to lavish praise on their performances, because they never manage to inspire empathy as well as we might wish. The sense of urgency - of imminent physical danger to their person, of the crucial importance of their quest - never quite strikes home.The screenplay doesn't always help them. It attempts to give the tale a strong moral foundation, by associating it with burgeoning democratic ideals in feudal Britain, unconvincingly: suspension of disbelief failed this reviewer.For both these reasons, the epic sense of greatness that saturates Mr. Scott's similar works never works in this one. Indeed, in the anticipated climax of the battle, slow motion shots fall flat, and emotion never reaches an expected high, in spite of the film's competence in the action scenes.This is a work that strangely echoes others, as well. People will be drawn to comparisons with Gladiator; these aren't particularly relevant beyond Russell Crow's similar (yet less engaging) performance. Rather, Robin's journey from the crusades and through England, in which he prospers on fateful luck and earned respect, copies Ridley Scott's own Kingdom of Heaven. In their themes and ambition these three films are alike, but Robin Hood doesn't thrive from the comparison. Where flaws are shared, what made the other two great is oddly lacking in this latest historical epic from the director.
__label__7 This is my first review for IMDb inspired by the long dissertation on how disappointing this Robin turned out to be.I, on the other hand believe that all the buggers did a fine & entertaining job. It certainly is no Citizen Kaine & if this Robin Hood does become a trilogy, I do not think it will fair as well as The Lord of the Rings trilogy. One can hope that this Robin Hood will only improve as did TLOTR. Time will tell...As stated, the movie was entertaining. As a prequel it set the story to come rather well. It did run a bit long but it is after all, a large tale. As anyone who has ever had a favorite book turned into a film knows, that film rendition is simply not going to have the nuance that one gets from reading a book at your on pace & with your own vision. So many are so disappointed by the lack of that nuance that they simply cant relax & enjoy the vision of a master director such as Ridley Scott.It is your loss if you go into this movie with unreasonable expectations that will keep you from enjoying this film.I give this movie a 7 of 10. There were, IMO a few CGI flaws & a few slow moments. If the tale continues I hope to see more development among the minor characters.A last thought, if this is the only segment of any proposed trilogy, then this movie is able stand alone.
__label__7 I enjoyed this movie and was impressed by the amount of detail Ridley Scott puts into his productions.Yes, it could have been better and I think some of the areas where it failed to meet the excellence of Gladiator were:* Plot – too convoluted, better to keep it simple and the hate more intense between the goodies and the baddies. * Character development – there was virtually none for the Merry Men. If Little John, Will Scarlet and co are in the movie, please give them something meaningful to say. * Editing - I think the movie fell down in this area and the narrative seemed stunted and disjointed at times. Perhaps the material was not just there in the first place? * A lack of passion – Russell Crowe in particular was too low key in his role but was not the only one. And Russell, I did get confused at times as to what part of old England you came from. But there were some that put much more into it such as Cate Blanchett and Max Von Sydow (good to see this great old actor can still perform) and the movie did have many good points. It was certainly a lot different to what I expected and some of the sets and scenes were outstanding. Watch for the dazzling credits. Looks from the ending there will be a sequel and with a few improvements, I think it can be great.
__label__7 Ridley Scott returns to familiar territory with Robin Hood. Obviously comfortable in the period setting of the film, Scott looks to reignite the flame of good old Mr. Hood. The story, more a reimagining than a retelling, is a weak point in a film that succeeds in taking the audience on an entertaining ride.Robin Hood takes a cue from Batman Begins and Casino Royale, and looks to provide an origin story. Starting on the field of battle, Robin Longstride (Russell Crowe) is an archer in King Richard the Lionheart's (Danny Huston) English army. Following a successful day of battle, Robin unwinds with his compatriots Will Scarlet (Scott Grimes), Allan A'Dayle (Alan Doyle) and Little John (Kevin Durand). After Robin reveals his true thoughts concerning the Crusade to the King himself, Robin, Will, Allan and John land in the stocks and are forced to sit out the next day's battle. During the battle, the King catches an arrow in the throat and before dying entrusts the return of his crown to Sir Robert Loxley (Douglas Hodge). Robin and his men are freed from the stocks by a young boy and set out to return home. At the same time, the King of France plots to conquer England by enlisting the help of Sir Godfrey (Mark Strong). Godfrey, an Englishman with French allegiance, along with a horde of French soldiers ambush the Royal Guard. Robin and his men happen upon the ambush as it occurs and fight back, killing many while Godfrey escapes. Robin goes to Sir Robert Loxley whose last dying wish is for his sword to be returned to his father. The film then follows Robin as he returns to Loxley's home of Nottingham with the impending French onslaught looming over England's shoulder.The story of Robin Hood can be complicated, and unnecessarily so. To rewrite such a classic story is a daunting task, one that should only be done with good reason, something the film fumbles in trying to present. The beginning of the film sets itself up to craft a different story, giving the audience hope, but becomes tired of the task and takes an easier and more predictable path. Characters are quickly introduced and rarely given depth. I imagined at one point that the writers had a Robin Hood checklist that they were going down during their process; Little John, check, Friar Tuck, check, Sheriff of Nottingham, check. In the way of story, the film brings nothing new to the table.There are few who can do a period piece as well as Ridley Scott. Having already proved himself with Gladiator and Kingdom of Heaven, Scott continues to show his cinematic eye for this genre. With the help of cinematographer, and frequent Scott collaborator, John Mathieson, the film is shot to make you feel the landscape. Each shot has such an authenticity that the audience can nearly smell the earthiness of old England. Then Scott stages action scenes amongst this terrain. If I could ask one thing of the film, it would be for more action scenes. Almost balletic in their presentation, both swords and arrows grab you by the throat and refuse to let go until the battle is over. This may not be your favorite Robin Hood, but it is without a doubt the most exciting.Although it suffers from a lackluster story and nearly non-existent character development, Robin Hood is no waste. Shot in such a way that suggests a true love of the period, the film will consistently keep your eyes interested. Scott shows artistry in his composure of action, if only there were more of it. Robin Hood has its faults but never fails to entertain.
__label__7 Forget everything you know about Robin Hood and his Merry Men of Sherwood Forest. Wipe away images of those Men In Tights robbing the rich and helping the poor, the pretty damsel Maid Marion, Little John and the dastardly Sheriff of Nottingham. The legend of Robin the Hood gets an overhaul by Ridley Scott and writer Brian Helgeland - and you can hardly recognise the bones of the legend until you get to the end of the movie.Like "The Dark Knight", "Iron Man" and others, this is another origin movie that sees director Scott teaming up again with Russell Crowe 10 years after Gladiator! Helgeland's tale deals with the adventures of Robin Longstride (Crowe), an archer in the Crusading army of Richard the Lionheart, long before he is known to all and sundry as Robin Hood. During a battle against the French, Robin learns of the 'death' of King Richard and sees it as an opportunity to flee from the army. On his way back to England, he chances upon the critically injured Sir Robert of Loxley (Douglas Hodge) and promises the dying knight that he will take a sword back to his father, Sir Walter Loxley (Max Von Sydow).At Sir Walter's home near Nottingham, Robin meets Robert's faithful widow Marion (Cate Blanchett) and accepts Sir Walter's proposal to masquerade as Robert, his 'prodigal son'. This means getting involved with the Loxleys' problems like over-taxation by the town's sheriff (Matthew Macfadyen) and helping to protect them from pillaging attacks by King John's emissary Godfrey (Mark Strong.Early reports about the script suggested that Robin Hood was supposed to be a villain and the Sheriff of Nottingham the hero. This proved to be false because Scott seeks to be faithful to English history in this re-imagining of the folklore (mostly told in ballads). Indeed, Scott spends a lot of time on the political intrigues of King John's (Oscar Isaac) court involving Godfrey, William Marshall (William Hurt) and the Queen, painting a realistic and vibrant portrait of 12th Century England. In fact some of the scenes remind me of the TV series, "The Tudors", which had a handful of the same co-stars and extras. And that beach landing sequence is definitely reminiscent of the World War Two landings at Normandy!Anyway, with Crowe and Blanchett in the lead, we can always expect powerful performances and rousing scenes of battles and romance. Even though Blanchett's Marion is no maiden, it is easy to root for her because she is as feisty as she is attractive and very handy with a bow and arrow. As for Crowe, it is easy to dismiss his performance as Gladiator Maximus in tights but that may not be accurate. What I would have wished for was for more humour than those provided by Mark Addy's Frair Tuck and Scott Grimes' Will Scarlet. Still, we can look forward to more adventures of the famous archer in the sequels. - By LIM CHANG MOH (limchangmoh.blogspot.com)
__label__7 The Lord Of The Rings trilogy blew me away, they were truly outstanding masterpieces that deserved every bit of recognition they got.The Hobbit I delayed due to a laundry list of concerns, all of which are being confirmed now I'm finally getting around to them.They look beautiful, they are a lot of fun, but compared to LOTR they are alike Mythica movies.The whole franchise has become a cash grab, the Hobbit should have been one single movie and without all the excessive alterations. Yes I know LOTR had changes, but not to this devastating extent.Desolation Of Smaug certainly has it's moments, I especially enjoyed the spiders and the not so jolly romp through the cursed forest. Thankfully the film isn't as goofy as the first either which was a welcome relief.Alas it's no better, it still feels lackluster. This is The Hobbit, one of the greatest tales ever put to paper! So why do these movies feel so underwhelming? I enjoyed this I truly did, but not as much as I should have and that right there is the problem.The Good: Forest scene was great Looks stunning The Bad: As neat as the barrels scene is it's about as realistic as Tara Reeds boobs Second movie, second stock scream Things I Learnt From This Movie: Bilbo Baggins has never seen Arachnophobia (1990), don't.....pluck.....the web Walnuts make great pillowsWhatever Cumberbatch was paid it was FAR too much
__label__7 I won't "review" the content of the movie in any detail, but provide some thoughts about how this film should be approached. I consider myself a Tolkienist (in fact I saw this movie on opening night because I secured a promotion deal with the local cinema: I spent four hours until midnight writing people's names in Elvish writing!) It is to be expected that many fans of of the original book will perceive this movie as a bloated, garbled monster version of the written story they loved. It is important to realize, before going in, that this is not simply "the movie of the book". This is Jackson's The Hobbit, not Tolkien's, and they are best appreciated as independent works. They represent different media, come from different centuries, and have partly different target audiences. The children's book was written before Tolkien had any idea of the grand trilogy to follow; Jackson had already produced his Lord of the Rings trilogy and somewhat understandably tries to make the prequels resemble it, in tone and scope.One could argue that Jackson's Hobbit trilogy, when complete, will set up the LotR film trilogy far better than Tolkien's simple children's book sets up the literary LotR. (The change in tone from children's book to grand epic is VERY pronounced, even grating for those who try to read The Hobbit after finishing LotR.) Incidentally, Jackson's prequel trilogy apparently will not spoil the LotR trilogy the way the Star Wars prequels give away important plot points of the original movies. When finished, Jackson's six Middle-earth movies can be profitably watched in sequence of internal chronology.To be sure, Jackson's Hobbit trilogy is "based on" the 1930s children's book in the sense that the characters have the same names and visit much the same places in somewhat the same order (though new characters and places are also added). Their basic motivations are also the same. But beyond that, one should not expect much "fidelity". There is hardly anything that isn't greatly embellished and vastly elaborated, mostly so as to allow for a FAR darker tone and MUCH more fantasy action (i.e., fights). The spiders of Mirkwood here approach actual horror, as compared to their rather more children-friendly literary counterparts (where we have Bilbo insulting them with silly "Attercop" rhymes).The wizards' conflict with the Necromancer of Dol Guldur, which in the book happens entirely "offscreen" and is just briefly alluded to when Gandalf has returned near the end, is here actually shown. This is understandable; Gandalf would otherwise be completely absent for much of this movie. Also, Jackson's audience will already know that this is the start of the war with Sauron, and the all-important Dark Lord could not well be ignored. Tolkien in his letters noted how Sauron casts just "a fleeting shadow" over the pages of The Hobbit; in Jackson's movie the shadow is darker and deeper.Entire new subplots are freely created and added to the story. The Elf Tauriel and her unlikely infatuation with one of the Dwarfs is clearly meant to add a love story where the book has none, and have at least ONE strong female character (no concern of Tolkien's when he wrote a story for children in the 1930s).The continued survival of ALL the protagonists despite their endless brushes with death doesn't just strain credibility -- it utterly and completely banishes and eliminates credibility. We are left with FANTASY action in the truest sense, to be enjoyed for choreography, not plausibility. If cats have nine lives, a Jacksonian Dwarf clearly enjoys a three-digit number of lives.So, viewed as an independent work, is this a good movie? Technically it is nothing short of brilliant, full of detail that can only be appreciated on the big screen. Smaug is, hands down, the best-designed movie dragon the world has yet seen. If I were a teenager instead of a ripe old 42, this wealth of fantasy action would probably have exited me no end. It is nice to see Legolas again, even if he is not in the book. I liked the sequences with the amorphous Sauron. Poor Evangeline Lily would however look better without those silly ears, which are simply too big and look just as fake as they are. Also, I'm not sure the hinted-at Elf-Dwarf romance adds much to the story. All things considered, I'll award Jackson's re-imagined "The Hobbit" seven stars.There were also seven stars in Durin's crown, for those of you who can understand the literary allusion ...
__label__7 The Golden Compass in my eyes was the must see film of this Christmas. I am a huge fan of the His Dark Materials books, and was reading all three in preparation for the movie to come, I was praying this would be the new fantasy epic to watch. I suppose I got myself way too hyped for this movie, even the slightly negative reviews didn't stop me from being excited, so what a shame to say this cannot help but be a disappointment for me. I have a few major problems with this mainly, mainly I suppose because of the changes from the book, in fact had I have not read the book I most probably would have completely adored the movie rather than have just liked it. The Golden Compass is not a bad movie, its definitely better than the first Narnia movie and Harry Potter movie, but after reading the book I couldn't help but criticise because I know how amazing this movie could have been. Thankfuly the entire cast, yes the entire cast, are absolutely perfect, there are two notable set pieces and the storyline still keeps its grip on the audience despite being rushed. The lack of the ending from the book actually didn't even bother me that much, so long as people who have read the book are aware its going to be in the second movie then I believe that they won't be that bothered. Overall Golden Compass is an entertaining two hours, that could benefit from another half hour. Its a great film to watch for Christmas and will hopefully do well at the box office so the Subtle Knife is made very soon.The biggest surprise of the cast definitely comes from Dakota Blue Richards as the lead, Lyra. In the trailers I actually thought that Lyra looked terrible, her voice sounded monotone and the girl showed no expression. Thankfuly in the movie that is far from the truth. Richards pulls off the character of Lyra perfectly, she's cheeky, at times rude but alway likable and definitely well acted. Her cockney accent surprisingly works and never gets too irritating, although at first it takes some adjusting too, and her emotions throughout the film are very well displayed. She carries the entire movie very well and it will be great to see her return in the future films as I know how much dramatic stuff she will have to do. But its Nicole Kidman who practically runs over the hills with this movie. Mrs Coulter was always my favourite character in the movie, and Kidman delivers an icy turn as the villainess. Kidman makes her multi-layered and highly memorable, her best scenes definitely being towards the end. Daniel Craig unfortunately features very little, but he delivers a great performance. Eva Green is superb as Serafine Pekkala but once again features way too little for my liking. The other two superb characters, and my joint second favourite performances, come from Ian Mckellen doing the voice of Iorek, and Sam Eliott who is perfectly cast as Lee Scoresby.However despite the incredible performances its the cruel way things have been changed or cut that made me incapable of ever giving this higher than a 7/10. I will never understand to this day why the polar bear fight was changed from near the end to the middle, and why the Bolvangar scenes are so unnecessarily rushed its almost cruel. Also changing certain characters and changing certain facts just infuriated me all the more! But the ultimate problem with the movie is the fact it is way too rushed. Occasionally it is a blessing to get a two hour movie rather than a bloated two and a half hour once, but this story requires all the time it can get, and with events just taking up mere seconds and events being cut out (fans of the book will hate The Cocktail Party not being in the film) makes the film feel too short and missing something. Thankfuly the bear fight is as incredible as I hoped for, it ends in very cool way, and the final battle at Bolvangar, while way too short is definitely well done. The movie also packs an emotional punch at times, the intercision scenes are pitch perfect and the ending is amazing in my eyes in terms of emotion. The effects of the daemons are very well done, and the daemons themselves are pretty cool, most namely Mrs Coulter's golden monkey which will terrify kids for a while.The Golden Compass is hardly the new Lord of the Rings as many, including me admittedly, had hoped for, but thankfully it looks much more promising than the Narnia series and perhaps with a new director, and less editing, this series could really take off. But for now I just need to get over my slight disappointment of it. Still very much worth watching though.
__label__7 Let me be the first to admit that there's nothing wrong with a long movie, nothing at all. "Titanic" was a long movie that was as exactly as long as it needed to be. "Gone with the Wind" was a really long movie that was exactly as long as it needed to be. "Dances with Wolves" was a long movie that I wish had been even longer when I saw it in the theater. But "King Kong"? Phhewww...this sucker clocks in at least 30-60 minutes longer than it needs to be. While it played, I kept inadvertently thinking to myself, "Boy, we really should be out to sea by now...they haven't reached the island yet?...man, are they EVER gonna find Ann?...jeez, when are we gonna go back to Manhattan already?..." and so on. Hand to God--I actually yawned twice during the last third of this movie. I even closed my eyes for a second before I realized, 'hey...you can't just rewind this when you wake up!'Sure, many scenes in "King Kong" were thrilling (e.g., LOVED the T-Rex sequence) and, yes, I even teared up a little a couple of times. And I must say, Kong himself was beautifully realized--he looked and acted like a REAL gorilla (albeit a tiny bit anthropomorphized)! But I gotta tell you...I was more relieved than exhilarated when this movie ended. (If I saw one more flyover of the native village, I was gonna scream!) Peter...baby...why spend so much time developing all these extraneous secondary characters if you don't really have much closure with them by the end. For example, the ship's captain and Jimmy...once we leave Skull Island...pfffftttt...we never them again. Why all the backstory scenes about them? As with the original version, Jackson should have concentrated simply on the four main characters throughout: Kong, Ann, Driscoll and Denham. Period.The problem is Jackson tried to make an epic out of a thriller, when these two approaches are generally exclusive to each other. The original "Kong" MOVED because it was simply a thriller and content to be so, but Jackson's remake starts and stops, and starts and stops, and starts and stops, merely frustrating the thrillseeker in us that wants to keep going every time Jackson establishes some momentum. But instead Jackson pauses to "delve" or "explore" or "elaborate" a la David Lean or something like that. One can excuse Jackson for shooting so much material for the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy--consider the rich source material . But how anyone could have taken the 100-minute original and nearly doubled it for a remake has far too much memory on his Mac. He should have saved all the extra footage (and I'm betting there's a LOT more we didn't see in the theatrical cut) for the DVD release as he did for LOTR. Mr. Jackson's first priority as a filmmaker (well, all filmmakers) is to present the most appropriate cut for THEATRICAL audiences during the film's initial exhibition in theaters. In this case, more WAS less. Much shorter movies in the past have had intermissions!Honestly, though I certainly enjoyed "King Kong", I really have no desire to see this movie again--I just couldn't bring myself to sit through all the filler just to get to the good parts. How I wish Jackson and/or Universal would consider releasing a 2-hour DVD version. Hey, it's happened before, so what's the harm? Inside of a year there'll be 17 versions out on DVD anyway...what's one more? But having to sit through a 3-4 hour DVD version someday? I'll take a pass.Do I recommend seeing "King Kong"? Of course. You'll probably enjoy it immensely, despite it's overlength. But if you do go, by all means lay off the Jumbo Coke until at least 90 minutes in! You'll thank me later.
__label__7 I've seen the original film before this one, and while it lacks the sophistication of Jackson's remake (remember, it was done during the Great Depression, so probably the budget was limited), at least the plot was a bit more believable, and straight to the point. No dithering over how the heroine lands a movie role after losing her job in the vaudeville, and all that jazz. Frankly, I felt like stopping the DVD after the initial half-hour of watching - was wondering when the ape and monsters would show up and start their destructive work. Only reason I kept on was to get my $3 worth in renting the movie.Sure enough, the special effects are fantastic, and that itself might merit watching the movie, if only to amuse kids, animal freaks, and those into action-adventure-what-have-you sort of films. But still I find a lot on (scientific) inconsistencies which I am sure were also noticed even by the most common viewer, as well as the more obvious everyday ones. Like how come Kong (remember, the "King" appellation was given to him by the white men, not the natives) comes away with just a cut on the chest and without wounds on his arms after tackling 3 T-rexes, especially when one of them clearly bit him on it. And the T-rex supposedly has the strongest bite per psi of all animals. And wouldn't T-rex struggle to free itself first after getting tangled in vines, instead of trying to fight off an enemy ape or endeavour to catch its prey (Ann Darrow). Also, raptor dinosaurs were supposed to be the smartest of their kind - wouldn't it have been inane and a death-wish to be plunging into a herd of stampeding sauropods in the hope of catching one of them, instead of waiting in ambush and isolating a likely target, w/c most dinosaur experts concur is how raptors hunted? Even human or animal hunters wouldn't consider such folly.And how come Ann Darrow escapes from Kong's clutches with hair still gleaming and untangled and her clothes unspoiled and unbesmirched with filth, having been dragged through feral humid jungle? But then, anything can happen in a movie, I suppose...All in all, I would rate the movie as good but not especially great. Kudos to Peter Jackson for at least trying to do a modern uptake of a classic epic film. But please, no re-make of Gone with the Wind or the African Queen, please .....
__label__7 Don't get me wrong here, I liked this film. It was spectacular, it had considerable emotional resonance, it wasn't a travesty.Of course in reality a 25ft silverback gorilla would collapse under its own weight, and in many ways that's what has happened to the movie.As others have noted, it is on the long side and would have benefited from resolute scissoring throughout. Just because you have the resources to show a 10-minute dinosaur stampede doesn't mean you actually have to do it, particularly when a 30-second scene would have told the story just as well. Throughout the movie, time is stretched in order to fit in all the effects - at one point several minutes pass between someone being struck by a spear and hitting the ground.In addition I remain unconvinced by CGI generally. OK, this probably looks better than any other CGI movie so far, but I don't think we're in any danger of confusing it with reality yet. Rather, we have a spectacular and detailed cartoon.It's ironic that while one of the central characters here is a combination of PT Barnum-style showman and Werner-Herzog-type visionary obsessive taking his cameras into the jungle, this "King Kong" itself is as far away from Herzogian 'realism' as it's possible to get. Not only do the CGI effects themselves (with the exception of Kong's facial expressions) fail to convince, the filmmakers also have people surviving unsurvivable falls, hanging onto logs and creepers in conditions where any human being would fall, etc. I know this is a Hollywood action movie staple, but it still jolts me out of any suspension of disbelief. OK, CGI is the only way we can have dinosaurs or giant gorillas, but keeping things as real as possible otherwise would help no end with the human side of the story.Any time a film-maker puts a film-maker into his story it's necessary to consider the relationship between the two. On the one hand we have the studio-bound CGI-nerd making a movie about a seat-of-the-pants explorer-director. On the other we have the "showman" side of Carl Denham, as Driscoll points out, destroying that very "wonder" he sets out to capture by reducing it to vulgar spectacle. You have to ask yourself if that resonance wasn't at least in Jackson's mind when he wrote the theatre scene.On the plus side, all the themes of the original are here and amplified, from the "we are the real monsters" (with added "Heart of Darkness" reference), through strong hints of ecological parable, to the genuinely tragic love of Kong for Darrow which leads directly to his capture and eventual downfall. The sadness in his eyes throughout is something to behold - as the last of his species he is doomed in any event, ironically it is his compassion which hastens his demise.
__label__7 While I don't think this film deserves the immense praise it is receiving, I truly think it is a lot of fun and is one of the better MCU films. The acting in this film is all very good, Robert Downey Jr plays Tony Stark great, like he always does, and Chris Evans fits the role of Steve Rogers well. The film juggles many characters, and for the most part, does a good, commendable job, though some characters, like Hawkeye or Rhodey, get very little to do and aren't as fun to watch as some others. Tom Holland kills it as Peter Parker/Spider-Man, he certainly is the best Spidey to date. Every scene with him is great and fun to watch. Chadwick Boseman does a great job at Black Panther, and the character is interesting and entertaining. Once more Paul Rudd is funny and likable as Ant-Man, even though he is sorely underused, he does get time to shine when he turns into Giant Man. Paul Bettany and Elizabeth Olsen are good and Vision and Scarlet Witch, respectively, and their characters have nice arcs.The story is well put together and runs smoothly for the most part. It does gets convoluted towards the end, but it mostly works. The villain is one note and has no charisma, but his motivations tie into the film nicely, and he gets some time to shine. The cinematography is quite boring, under saturated and gray. The airport fight is severely hurt by the amount of gray in it.The action in this film is handles magnificently, aside from a couple of shaky segments, like the tunnel chase, which was straight out of Taken 2. The big fight scene at the airport is extremely fun, and it is great seeing all these unique powers playing off each other. Ant-Man turning giant is pure fan-service, but it adds a great dynamic to the battle and in turn makes it more fun.The film has good emotion, specifically towards the end, when it is revealed that Bucky murdered Tony's parents, which leads to a heart wrenching conclusion.Overall, while I can't quite grasp giving the film a 10/10, I did enjoy it, and feel that it is a great addition to the MCU.
__label__7 OK, first of all, yes, this movie has more holes than the surface of the moon. Some of the plot points, tactics, technical gaffes, etc. etc. etc. are so bad and stupid as the be insulting. Seriously, if you are up on your military technology at all it's best to go to this movie seriously drunk so that you won't care about the dumbness.That said, it's actually a pretty fun movie. And, yes, I think it's better than Battle Los Angeles or even the latest Transformers. Why? Because this movie didn't make the same critical mistakes of trying to have Acting in the damn film. Nothing slows down a good action flick like a damn love story in the background, or the hero dealing with his feelings or, worse still, putting brats in the line of fire. Battleship had none of that - just a bunch of thick-headed do- gooders doing what they do best and not really learning a whole lot about anything, including themselves, in the process. Another thing I like is that there is an appreciation for the warships and the people who serve on them. The timing of the ACDC music for the going-into-battle scene is perfectly done. You can't help but smile.The alien technology is actually pretty imaginative and the animation is good. It's not as over- the-top as Battle LA - where there was so much going on you get overwhelmed. But when the aliens want something blowed up, they do so with conviction. Mind you, some of the technical deficiencies of the alien technology will leave you wondering how these creatures managed to cross a galaxy. But try not to worry about that - the writers sure didn't.The cast is OK. Neeson is decent as the admiral or whatever, and even Rihanna does an acceptable job. We're not talking about "Apocalypse Now" kinds of performances, but it wasn't horrible either. It was at least semi-believable.Look, this ain't no "Bedford Incident". But it's a pretty decent way to kill a couple hours and snarf down some popcorn. All the folks griping about the technical problems - well, it's all true - but who cares? This movie doesn't pretend to be realistic. Hell, in the credits it's "Based on the game by Hasbro," so go in prepared and enjoy.
__label__7 I saw the trailers for the movie and expected another Transformers, SFX for all your money. When I started watching the movie though I noticed something wasn't just right. Why don't the aliens to more Bad things? We are supposed to hate them, they are here to take over our world, Right?Nope. And this is where this movie actually Shines, and the reason it gets so many bad reviews is that people miss out on 2 very important facts.Aliens are the Good Guys Humans are the Bad Guys. The movie just makes quite a good job with camouflaging this in regular Blockbuster Cheesiness. The movie is a direct documentation about how hellish and pointless war is.1.Humans in the movie are very aggressive and dumb. Our Main hero is a guy who should never have been put in command of anything! And here he gets to greet our first ever contact with aliens, using Guns, Cruise Missiles and Torpedoes!2. Aliens never want to hurt anyone. The Aliens Are Passive, Never firing unless first fired upon. The point is made extra clear with the scene where a DeathBall stops in front of a child, re-planning its route in order to destroy the highway without harming the child. How Much Clearer Can It Get?3. Aliens have no Military Grade Weapons. This is another point where people seem to watch this movie expecting the regular Blockbuster, and then hate this movie because it isn't! The Aliens didn't expect a war so they didn't Bring Weapons!The Satchel-Bombs they fire of their ships are actually terrible as weapons, the only reason they work at all is because we humans have such slow ships. This is probably because these bombs aren't designed for any sort of ship to ship battle, but rather for clearing up debris. And what we see on a personal level is an engineering tool the aliens seems to use a lot more for setting up their generators than to actually fight with.This is NOT your classic race of Evil Aliens equipped with Independence-Day Lasers, or Corrosive "Aliens" Blood! This is a peaceful advanced race, which came here not expecting to fight, but to talk.Once you realize this the movie starts making sense. what our "hero" does is in fact to constantly seek out conflict. Doing everything he can in order to destroy these Aliens, all because of some miscommunication and stupid decisions. If this movie teaches anything, It would definitely be that when the time comes for humans to face another, alien race. Make sure the ones we send to greet them aren't Military.So Basically what the movie is Really about is about a peaceful race of aliens who receive a message from an apparently peaceful race. We then greet them by firing upon them, trying to kill them even if they aren't even firing at us. So when they realize their mistakes we do our best trying to prevent them from sending a "Its a trap, humans are evil" message.Regular blockbuster movies often manage to build up a mountain of evil actions on the aliens account, making the "Heroes" fight justified and true.Battleship doesn't do that, It puts the regular Blockbuster Patriotism into a setting where it becomes totally destructive, not only preventing the Aliens and Humans to communicate, but also started a war that have already seen thousands of casualties, and may see millions more before its over.I rate the movie 7 out of 10. Its a really fresh take on the whole Evil Alien Invasion theme.
__label__7 On a certain level, there's no way I can claim that Battleship is a good movie in any conventional sense. The plot is incredulous and the script couldn't be riddled with more holes if you unloaded a shotgun at it. Even the idea that the movie is based on Hasbro's classic board game of the same name is rather disingenuous: yes, there is a battleship involved in the action, almost all of which takes place at sea, but other than that any resemblance to the game we all grew up playing seems purely coincidental. And I certainly don't remember any aliens in the game I had.But somehow, despite it all, Battleship stays afloat. There's a certain energy and enthusiasm to the film that is infectious, even via the big screen. The story may not make a whole lot of sense, but it is a lot of fun. The extravagant special effects—merely par for the course in any modern would-be blockbuster—are one factor, but spectacular as the many explosions, gunfights, and various displays of pyrotechnics are, there's more to it than that, an overriding sense of fun that makes all the conventional weaknesses of the film meaningless.Certainly, the cast seems to be having a lot of fun on screen. Taylor Kitsch, who stars as Lt. Alex Hopper, is an empathetic hero whose struggle to overcome his personal weaknesses is ultimately played out with the fate of the world at stake when he finds himself and the crew of his Navy destroyer in the wrong place at the wrong time—and smack in the middle of an amphibious alien invasion. Alexander Skarsgard plays Alex's older brother and mentor, a Navy Captain to whom Alex feels he has been a shallow disappointment. The gorgeous Brooklyn Decker does an adequate job as Alex's girlfriend, Samantha, whose father just happens to be the Admiral of the fleet, and played by the great Liam Neeson in a typically authoritative performance. The only real weak spot in the cast is singer Rihanna, making her big screen debut and looking like it. One can only hope that if Rihanna pursues further acting roles, she'll improvea lot.The plot isn't deep, but it does have some positive aspects, incorporating elements of personal redemption, self-empowerment, and self-sacrifice, all concepts that more movies would be well-advised to advance. And while the movie is in a sense very violent—once the aliens arrive, things start to blow up at a rapid clip—there's nothing especially graphic or bloody. The dialog isn't Oscar-worthy, but is sometimes quite witty.In the end, Battleship is a prototypical summer actioner. It's nowhere nearly as good as The Avengers, but as a very different type of film is still worth seeing if big-budget mayhem is your thing. If you're okay with a movie that doesn't stimulate your brain and requires only that you go along for the fast-paced ride and enjoy the show, Battleship is surprisingly entertaining.
__label__7 You may have heard some critics champion Jurassic World as "The best Jurassic Park sequel", some fans declare that it "brought them back to their childhood", and others who may have made the absurd claim, "It's better than the original". Don't believe the hype. Jurassic World is nowhere close to the best Jurassic Park sequel (Spielberg's own, The Lost World: Jurassic Park, will always have that title). It is not going to bring you back to your childhood, and it doesn't hold a candle to what Steven Spielberg and crew accomplished with the original Jurassic Park. That being said, in a time of dark, self-serious, and pretentious blockbusters such as last year's Dawn of the Planet of the Apes or Christopher Nolan's Dark Knight films, Jurassic World is a refreshing antidote. Light, wholesome, and heavy on adventure, JW harkens back to the big Hollywood "event" blockbusters of the 80s and 90s. Let's just not pretend this is anything groundbreaking. The fourth Jurassic Park movie remembers to have fun with its premise, but Spielberg's magic touch is still sorely missed.Jurassic World is the latest film in the Jurassic Park franchise in name only. Call it a sequel, reboot, or re-quel, the fact remains, this is not the same world created by author Michael Crichton and made real by Spielberg and company in 1993. All the major characters from the first three films are gone. Alan Grant, Ellie Satler, Ian Malcolm, and the rest of the appealing and memorable characters of the earlier movies are replaced with broad movie archetypes and superfluous supporting characters. With respect to our new kid characters and Vincent D'Onofrio's bone-headed military grunt, the only two characters worth noting in Jurassic World are Owen Grady, a rugged dino-expert played by bona fide movie star Chris Pratt, and Claire Dearing, an uptight scientist played by Bryce Dallas-Howard. Both are really likable in doses, and the script doesn't subject us to too much of their dopey bantering. While Owen and Claire are cliched, and ultimately uninteresting, as characters, the charm and sheer star power of Pratt and Dallas-Howard are quite enough to bolster JW's brand of disposable summer adventuring.There's a neat little hook to the story of Jurassic World. After a re-branding of sorts, John Hammond's dream is finally realized and Jurassic Park is opened and fully operating. However, when the public begins to lose interest in seeing the same old dinosaurs, the scientists of Jurassic World are prompted to create an all-new hybrid dinosaur called the Indominus Rex. Well, you guessed it, that dinosaur escapes. Okay, so that's a clever solution to the classic Jurassic Park sequel dilemma, "How does this stuff keep happening?", but that plot line takes all of twenty minutes to peter into a chase picture, and a simple one at that. The few subplots are banal. Be it, two brothers who come to Jurassic World to spend time with their aunt, or a ridiculous plan to weaponize velociraptors (The latter of those subplots is one of the most embarrassingly stupid ideas I've seen in a movie in years), Jurassic World doesn't have much to get invested in besides big scary monsters running after people.There is one aspect of the film that I love, and that is the design of the Jurassic World Resort. The care that went into perfecting the look of the theme park is a great deal higher than the care that went into the story or the filmmaking. Jurassic World is a living, breathing place, and it is filled with all kinds of minor details that help sell the illusion. The triceratops petting zoo, the hamster ball ride, the souvenir shops, and scores of other theme park related details are touches that I was grateful made it into the film. There are more than a few nice moments where you get to enjoy the park as it was "intended". The immersion lasts throughout, even as the prehistoric psycho-killer, and all the destruction that it brings, takes center stage. Once the Indominus Rex gets out, and all Hell breaks loose, director Colin Trevorrow's filmmaking starts to show its deficiencies. Jurassic World is an impressive technical feat. The action is staged well, and the special effects and production designs are incredibly polished. It all looks like a million bucks (or 150 million to be exact), and it's all very fun, but when it comes to the meat of the movie, it's foolish to think that Jurassic World is anything more than Transformers with dinosaurs. In Jurassic Park and The Lost World, Steven Spielberg infused his action scenes with tension and suspense. There was a certain kind of visual poetry to the T-Rex attack in the first movie or the raptors in the grass scene from The Lost World. They were exhilarating because of their selective restraint. Without showing everything, Spielberg made scenes that were subtle and scary, and that exploded to life at just the right moments. Jurassic World's action scenes are big, loud, and entertaining, but it's all chaos, no technique. Trevorrow throws the kitchen sink into every shot. The Indominus Rex chomps up dozens of machine gun toting mercenaries, pterodactyls dart all over the screen pecking and biting everything in sight, and big, lumbering CGI beasts fight each other and destroy every last peanut brittle building around them. Sound familiar? It's the kind of Call of Duty-esque sensory bombardment that can be loads of fun to watch while you're there but doesn't leave the lasting impact of truly great action.So it is with Jurassic World. The movie is big, bright, and fun, with lots of action and good special effects. It pleases crowds. But as with most big budget crowd pleasers, it comes with dull characters, brain dead plotting and booming CGI overload. Jurassic World left me with the exact same feeling I got after seeing Jurassic Park 3. Both movies are serviceable summer romps, full of dino-action and great visual effects, but there is simply a noticeable dip in the quality of the production. Jurassic World successfully mines from the franchise name a good B-caliber FX spectacular. For dumb summer fun, it works. But there was a time when Jurassic Park aspired to more than dumb summer fun. Steven Spielberg's first two movies had class. They grappled with ideas, they were intelligent, they showcased real filmmaking, and they were genuinely thrilling. Jurassic World is colorful and entertaining, but let's be clear, when it's all said and done, nothing beats Spielberg. 74/100
__label__7 The 4th film in the Jurassic Park series and the second sequel that Steven Spielberg did not direct starts off well enough with enough call backs to the first film of the series but quickly turns into a monster movie with a run away super killer dinosaur that was spliced by the DNA of other prehistoric creatures for the sake of selling extra tickets. If my description of the plot Is pretty simplistic,it's because the story is that simple. So forget the dangers of science morality tales that both "Jurassic Park" and "The Lost World" gave to it's stories and just accept that the series has become a standard creature feature that just swaps out it's main monster for every new installment. The last film in the series "Jurassic Park 3" pretty much threw away the whole plot lines of the first two films just to give us a chase film with a dinosaur that was never even seen in "The Lost World" and that film was set on the same island. While "Jurassic Park 3" just went on a painful 90 minutes long montage of talking raptors, horrible scenes of family bonding and an visible annoyed Sam Neill looking like he's about to go postal on the people working on the film set, Jurassic World manages to be a hell of a lot more enjoyable experience for the viewer in terms of just trying to inject a sense of plot and continuity to this other wise creature feature.As a standard creature feature, the movie works well and gives you your money's worth of dinosaurs doing collateral damage to property and personnel with the occasional park visitor being killed for good measure. Throw in your slack jaw good guy ( Chris Pratt) who feels that the creatures are misunderstood and works with good guy dinosaurs(I Kidd you not) to help stop the super killer dinosaur. Throw in an human adversary for our hero to fight with ( Vincent D"Onofrio) who would blow the whole island up to get this monster and add an human element like two lost children who are related to a employee at this crazy theme park who by the way has the hots for our hero and you have the entire story right there.It's hard enough to keep a franchise going, especially when you're dealing with dinosaurs walking the earth. You will eventually hit a wall in terms of storytelling if your primary goal is to keep turning these films out with out any care what so ever. We saw that with "Jurassic Park 3" where all the plot points from the previous two films were abandon for a B Movie creature feature. "Jurassic World" tries hard to correct that by having the movie be about something a little more and try to connect itself to the first film of the series. And Its much better film for it but it still ends up a creature feature all the same.
__label__7 MINOR SPOILERSSam Mendes's take on 007 is a remarkably well done film, both technically and entertainment-wise, it has the characters, the action, and the Bond allure which is a constant throughout the movie.It captures you right with the opening sequence, which is absolutely thrilling and beautifully choreographed, the whole movie is nicely choreographed and very well shot (Roger Deakins's cinematography is a stand out). The key characters are well presented, with each of them having their own layers, and the movie dives specifically into Bond's psyche, which gave us on the way, the right dose of Bond origins (not too much, not too little). The lead acting is fantastic, Craig as Bond, which in my opinion is the best who portrayed the Iconic spy, Dench as M, and Bardem as Silva, which by himself takes the movie to a whole new level both as an actor and the character itself, since among the Daniel Craig-led 007's, Skyfall is the first film to bring us a true villain, an archenemy, one that is actually in-par to Bond himself. Skyfall also brings new additions and takes some out that leaves a lot to be explored in sequels (several new characters that will most probably be reprised again, and yes, there is death). And there is a very, very nice retro touch to the film that pays homage to 50 years of James Bond.This however does not mean the film is perfect at all, it does have several issues of its own, issues that stand out. The overall story does not hold itself very well, specifically the final act, which might be considered a bit... stupid. Some characters and the architecture surrounding them did not Solid nor necessary, the whole Sévérine (Bérénice Marlohe) charade felt imposed and like a plot device just to introduce a an action sequence, a fling, and shed a little light on the villain. To me, the most un-Bond thing about Skyfall was that, 007 was more of a hit-man than a spy, he had one, maybe two "spying" missions, which included lots of killing, the rest was a shoot-em up, more like an open war movie than an espionage one.And as for the temporary feel of the film (in the time of its release), the trailer had a very negative effect, it gave out almost every key scene and one liner in the film, leaving almost nothing to surprise you at the theater, this however cannot be held against the movie's lifetime position since trailers do not live forever, opposing to Bond films which actually do seem to live forever.If I have to place this film among the other Craig-led Bond movies, it falls somewhere between "Casino Royale" and "Quantum Of Solace"
__label__7 Iron man 3 is not completely fresh in my mind considering I saw the movie over a month a go, but it was a movie to remember.Iron Man 3 was the first movie on my list of anticipated movies for summer 13, and I thought it was a delight. Robert Downey Jr. was great in the suit as usual. He steals every scene, charms you, and is an overall funny guy. War machine ( haha) had good chemistry with stark and remained a relevant supporting character.I am a big Guy Pearce fan! I loved him in movies such as: memento, hurt locker, and la confidential. He was good as an actor in this film, but I felt they could have made him a little deeper of a villain. Which brings us to the supposed downfall of this film. The Mandarin. Die hard fans of the Mandarin will be disappointed as ever by the mandarin in Iron Man 3. He appears as a large threat and as a ruthless terrorist in the first half of the film. Halfway through the movie you actually find out he is a drunken actor. In the end, no one can deny Iron Man 3, unless your a Mandarin purist. 9/10
__label__7 First of all, let me say that X3 was a great action film. If you want to have a great time at the movies, this is a fun film to watch. However, as a fan of X-Men and the film trilogy, there were some problems with the film. There are a lot of characters that are undeveloped. It's not such a problem with the one's we already know, but it is for the one's that we don't. There's also unneeded information for certain characters that aren't really in the movie. Certain characters play big roles, but we don't get to know them. Others have minor roles, and the info is meaningless. For instance, a character is introduced in the prologue to the movie, but is barely seen in the remainder of the film. The movie was way too short. It seems like everyone's in a hurry throughout the film. If it had been 2 and a half hours, it would have been able to develop all of the characters, and the back stories would have been more relevant to certain characters. The movie is action packed and fun, but it really doesn't draw you into it the way the first two did, say for a couple of scenes. Overall, it was worth seeing on the big screen, and I'm glad that I saw it. It is a good film. But again, you'll be a little disappointed as an X-Men fan. 7/10.One final thing, stay after the credits for the final scene. It seems nobody saw the entire movie.
__label__7 Monsters University: the prequel that no one asked for, but everyone will watch. It would appear that Pixar has recently run out of original ideas and has resorted to making sequels and prequels of older more successful movies (Cars 2, Planes, Monsters U and Finding Dory). That being said, the film was actually pretty decent and was rather watchable and enjoyable. The film had multiple unexpected twists, which avoided having an all too predictable ending. It also explained many of the features of its sequel, like Randall's rivalry with Mike and Sully and the Abominable Snowman. Reviving the voice talents of Billy Crystal, John Goodman and Steve Buscemi and adding Helen Mirren and Charlie Day, amongst others, this film stayed within the universe that the original movie had created, however in comparison failed to live up to its predecessor's greatness.
__label__7 A prequel to one of Pixar's most beloved films, Monsters Inc. In all honesty, I wasn't looking forward to this one too much. A sequel would have been a better option. Like the Toy Story movies, it should take place a long while later, and Mike and Sully should meet back up with a teenage Boo or something. Boo was the soul of that movie, and, of course, in a prequel, Boo can't exist. Instead, we get the story of how Mike and Sully met in college. The story is made up of a ton of college movie clichés in the Monsters world. And it's fine. Not great, nothing really special, but it's very enjoyable and the animation is gorgeous. The last time I revisited Monsters Inc., the animation seemed a little primitive, but Pixar has more than perfected it now, and I loved seeing the wonderful monster designs. Steve Buscemi, the villain from the first film, is prominent in the cast again. Other famous cast members include Nathan Fillion, Sean Hayes, Dave Foley, Charlie Day, Aubrey Plaza and Alfred Molina. The most memorable new character is Dean Hardscrabble, played by Helen Mirren. The design, kind of a centipede dragon, is extremely cool and actually pretty creepy.
__label__7 Too much comic relief undermines the dramatic impact of director Michael Bay's visually impressive sequel "Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen." If you skipped the original live-action "Transformers," you may not understand the stakes in the sequel or the situation. The original concluded with the treacherous Decepticon jet Transformer streaking off into the sky, guaranteeing the survival of the villains. Original "Transformer" scenarists Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman are joined on this installment by "Reindeer Games" writer Ehren Kruger and they bring back the evil Decepticons for a rematch with the virtuous Autobots. Clocking in at an hour and 49 minutes, Bay's epic length sequel features machine-like entities shape-shifting from various vehicles into gigantic robots with deadly appendages that discharge explosive broadsides whenever they unleash their titanic fury. The problem is Bay neglects the narrative for these massive transformations. When the Hasbro creations aren't changing from innocent machines into destructive robots, Bay and his scribes are slinging visual and verbal jokes as fast as you can blink. In other words, "Transformers: The Revenge of the Fallen" lacks suspense until the last quarter hour when the flesh & blood performers inject some emotional gravity into this superficial smackdown between good and evil alien robots."Transformers: The Revenge of the Fallen" opens with a prologue in 17,000 B.C. when mankind initially runs afoul of the alien robots, before Bay jumps ahead to the 21st century when mankind and the Autobots have formed an alliance. U.S. Army Major Lennox (Josh Duhamel of "Turistas") and Sgt. Epps (Tyrese Gibson of "2 Fast 2 Furious"), command an elite squad codenamed NEST that consists of Autobots collaborating with U.S. and British soldiers to smoke out rogue Decepticons hiding anywhere in the world. The opening Shanghai sequence where NEST routs a gargantuan unicycle that wrecks more havoc than Godzilla ever visited on Tokyo gets things started off on the right track. The unicycle warns our heroes that the worst is about to befall them in the form of a monstrous entity named 'The Fallen.' The sequel focuses on a thousand year old object called 'the matrix of knowledge' that provides loads of power to whoever acquires it. The scene shifts from Shanghai to the Witwicky homestead in California where Sam (Shia LaBeouf of "Disturbia") announces his plans to attend a prestigious Ivy League university and try to live the life of a normal twentysomething. Sam informs Bumblebee, the yellow Camaro that morphs into a monstrous robot, that he cannot accompany him. Freshmen aren't allowed to have cars on campus. Incredibly, Sam is leaving his super hottie girlfriend, Mikaela Banes (Megan Fox), who looks sexier than ever. After Sam's parents, Ron Witwicky (Kevin Dunn) and Judy (Julie White), get our hero situated in his dorm, they head off to Europe for a vacation. Sam and Mikaela are having their first relationship struggle. She wants him to utter the L-word "love" but he is content only to tell her that he "adores" her and they plan to maintain their relationship coast-to-coast via the Internet.As Sam is unpacking, a shard of the Allspark falls out of his clothing from the first movie and weird things start to happen. Remember, the AllSpark was a mystical cube that contained the key to the Transformers' existence and was thought destroyed in the original movie. Optimus Prime shows up soon afterward and explains trouble is brewing and Sam has a role to play in its resolution, but our hero refuses to participate.Of course, what Sam wants and what Sam ends up doing are two entirely different matters. In one of his classes, he scans an astronomy book from cover to cover and accuses Einstein of being wrong. Furiously, Sam starts scribbling enigmatic symbols. Later, the Decepticons return in force, steal parts of the AllSpark, excavate Megatron from the bottom of the ocean floor, sink half the U.S. Navy, and set out to destroy not only the Autobots but also the Earth. The Decepticons' primary target is Sam and they perform a full body scan to obtain vital information."Transformers" boasts some spectacular scenes. For example, a robot versus robot mêlée around Egypt's Giza Necropolis, with the evil Devastator, a remarkably mammoth mechanoid, absorbing several construction vehicles so it can scramble atop the peak of a pyramid, is truly a sight to behold. Again, Bay and his scribes cannot inhibit their humor and they show two huge wrecking balls dangling like genitalia between its massive thighs. The scene where the Decepticons resurrect Megatron from the bottom of the ocean is exhilarating to watch. The last thing that you should be thinking about is the nincompoop who decided not to melt Megatron done into a pile of metal so nothing like this could happen. Unfortunately, had they done so it is likely that there would not have been a sequel.Mind you, "Transformers: The Revenge of the Fallen" qualifies as a big, dumb, noisy action-paced sci-fi saga that doesn't make any sense and revels in its larger-than-life idiocy. Humans take a backseat to the fracas between the mechanoids until the final moments when only Sam can save the day. Unfortunately, the humor gets entirely out of hand. Sam's college roommate follows him around the globe and spends more time screaming in terror rather than fighting. Agent Simmons (John Turturro) is back acting just as flaky as ever, too. The Ghetto twin Autobots are as obnoxious as Jar Jar Binks was in the "Star Wars" prequel. The gags and the pranks displace the drama. The language is often rude and verges on the obscene. The surprises are few and far between. Without enumerating them, we are asked to believe that essential characters can die and never be revived. Anybody who believes for an instant that the Decepticons will vanquish the Autobots is clearly delusional, though it would have been a nice cliffhanger touch on Bay's part to stage an ending similar to "Star Wars: The Empire Strikes Back."
__label__7 I'm amazed at some of the reviews on here. Seriously, what did people expect outta this film? Shakespeare? The English Patient? You go to see this for the ridiculous action, awesome special effects and just to have a good time, which is what I had. Yeah, it did seem to overindulge slightly and was slow in parts. Yeah, the humour's cheesy, sometimes painfully so. No surprise there though, let's remember we're watching a film based on kids' toys, not a Bronte novel. It ain't perfect, but if you expected it to be, I'm glad you're feeling let down. For me, it didn't try to be anything it shouldn't have and what it needed to do right, it did.Mindless, thoroughly enjoyable fun, just like the first one.
__label__7 For the most part, this film is the decent thrill ride that the movie going audience is looking for. As an action moving, it has scenes to astound and thrill any avid fan. As a science fiction movie it stands reasonably well. It doesn't over-explain things and doesn't throw in concepts as central plot points that are blatantly impossible (super novas that threaten entire galaxies, I'm talking about you Star Trek). The movie also does relatively well on a comedic note, and from a standpoint of general plot. Though others have complained about the central importance of Sam's role being unlikely and a retread of the first film, it follows through logically from where the first film left off.Though the film is a lot of fun, it does have its flaws. Unfortunately the humor descends to the low brow a little too often. Also the Autobot twins that Michael Bay apparently loved so much were frightfully annoying. They did also lean towards offensive cultural stereotypes a little heavily. It is unfortunate because a couple of their funnier lines could have been delivered just as well by completely different characters. In fact they might have been funnier coming from a more straight laced Autobot. The use of the twins in pure Jar Jar Binks fashion (though not quite as irritating) was unfortunate given how many underused robots there were. The comment about Sam's roommate's bravery could have been unexpectedly hilarious coming out of Arcee.Most of the other glitches in the film were relatively minor and not worth mentioning, though the writers could use a geography lesson. If you enjoy action films and don't need a deeper artistic message, Revenge of the Fallen is well worth the watch.
__label__7 Adapting Transformers into live-action movies is always going to be a bit of a nasty challenge to get right, but I enjoyed most of this action-packed extravaganza. It doesn't have that same magic of seeing Transformers battle for the first time and it seeming like a spectacle, but it makes up for it by having more action and more explosions.So a quick few words on what I thought of the first movie.Transformers 1 HATED: - Megan Fox's 'acting'. It's absolutely all form and no charisma; - most of the Transformers talking; - the scene where the Transformers are hiding in the backyard of Sam's house while he searched for the spectacles in his room (just seemed to take all the seriousness away from the Transformers and portray them as silly).Transformers 1 LOVED: - watching the Transformers battle each other; - Shia Labeouf doing his great mix of nutty comedy/nervous acting. Transformers 2 - HATED: - Film tends to sag in the middle when the action slows down to progress some of the silly plot. Transformers is not a film about plot, it's about the action - just keep it coming and don't try to make a story from it because it's RIDICULOUS; - Megan Fox still looks amazingly hot but cannot act to save her life. You may as well just put a cardboard cut-out of her next to Shia Labeouf and it'll do the same job for a fraction of the cost; - A scene towards the end of the movie where there is a small "dream sequence" of sorts, and the word "destiny" is mentioned. I almost vomited. The word 'ridiculous' doesn't quite do it justice; - The girl that Sam meets at college and who she is. I am simply AMAZED that they actually let that whole thing get put into the movie - it just doesn't fit into the Transformers world and leaves stupendous plot holes and questions; - There isn't enough slow-motion in the action sequences for you to take it all in - Transformers trying to be "funny" - yuck.Transformers 2 - LOVED: -The action is mind-blowing. This is what you go to see the film for, and apart from the slow-mo flaw, it's pretty breathtaking and surprisingly violent too; - Sam and his parents are genuinely hilarious.And that's it.I went to see Robots doing battle, and for 90% of the movie that's what I got. This isn't a film for those looking for a smart plot or realistic story lines and physical motion - this is something to visually gawk at, and sonically admire. This is special effects without having to think about it. There are plenty of other films that showcase superb character development and plot, but this isn't it and nor does it try to be. This is a live-action movie that you could easily imagine being a cartoon. If that's what you want to see I think you'll enjoy this as pure entertainment. If you didn't like the first movie I can't see how you would like this one, but for those who liked watching metal smash into other metal, you'll be buzzing from this flick.
__label__7 Lets just start with the critics. I have a lot of respect for critics and their opinions but lets face it Transformers 1 and 2 are not made for critics. They REALLY didn't like the sequel and I in all honesty see why. But, and it's a big but, I am the kind of person who enjoys a good Oscar movie and a good sob in a sad movie, but i am still a HUGE fan of action movies. For me personally an action movie is crude language, many explosions, a hero of some sorts, and a decent soundtrack and for me Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen does indeed deliver on that point. The movie is visually fascinating and "explosive", and I knew what to expect so I was therefore not disappointed. After giving myself time to consider the movie more clearly, yes, there are points I could have been without or enjoyed more of. Megan Fox's and Shia LaBeouf's lovey dovey stuff could have been left out for all I care. The sense of humor does indeed border on the idiocy lvl but todays generation might not be as clever as others. I would have loved to see Devastator more than others, but drives me to the same conclusion as Spider-Man 3 where I would have loved to see Venom a lot more than I did. The action scenes (and there are a lot of them) are a bit crowded and you do have to be in a certain state of mind to be able to focus well.But all in all the movie is visually dynamic and has the most outstanding special effects since the last Transformers. It was genuinely entertaining. As for stars i give the explosions 2 stars, the SFX 3 stars, Shia LaBeouf 1 star, Josh Duhamel 1 star and the robots 2 stars leaving the total at 9/10. Go watch it if not for the massive explosions or just because you want to see the sequel see for the impressive ability Michael Bay has to bring the wildest toys to life yet again.
__label__7 I thought the sequel was almost as good as the original film. It is a Michael Bay film. There are lots of action sequences and explosions, mixed in with humorous and witty dialog. I thought some parts of the film seemed to repeat the first (the desert fighting scenes looked like the exact same sets). But I also thought that Michael did a good job of adding onto the characters. For example, I did not know that the Decepticons could take a human form. And there are some plot points I would like to change or have worked out better, but I can live with it the way it is. It is definitely a "Transformers" film by Michael Bay. He does not try to be something he is not, and that is why I adore him as a director.Go see this film if you enjoyed the first one, or if you like Michael Bay's other work. Leave the high expectations at home.
__label__7 The infamous sequel to the Transformers live action series, infamous for suppose racism (two jive talking robots and a African American guy with bad teeth, do not make a racism movie) plus Tyrese Gibson wasn't doing any stupid steppin-fetch-it comedy act in the movie. He was equally as heroic as the white guys. So I don't see the racism aspect, maybe stereotypical but what movie isn't. Two, the PG-13 level humor, including robot balls humor, farting, hash brownies, tasing, dogs screwing and John Tuturro's ass. The humor is a legitimate point, though I think some of it does work, I agree some isn't good. Especially the Tuturro ass shot, left me cringing. But did it totally cripple the movie, no, the first had a urination gag in it, did it ruin that movie, no. And critics weren't complaining about it. The high amount of comedy relief characters is a little much, Turturro being far and away the best outing the horrible Leo Spitz and the twins. People complained about the length, boy didn't see them complain about that in Pirates 3 or 2012. People criticize the action scenes, I agree a little better editing but what movie doesn't suffer from some bad editing. I must have not noticed it, I saw really beautifully done CGI action scenes. I just think the movie isn't worth the vitriol. I was really just sitting there wondering how critically obtuse people can be. Some people sit there and say that the movie was built for the lowest common denominator and only the easily amused or entertained. I really love such stupid comments, like I can't go to a movie just for a really good action experience and that it has to always make me think. I remember the long rage filled reviews on this movie from Roger Ebert to lowly internet critic Spoony one aka Noah Antwiler (who really had no room to talk as he makes freaking rape jokes on twitter). One of the most infamous was Harry Knowles, one of the stupidest reviews in a long time, telling us to out right ban and boycott the movie based on it's as Harry states racist content. I was downright floored, it's just a movie Knowles calm down. The kind of reaction is just kind of stupid especially from a professional like Knowles. And the racism is largely exaggerated as is the purposed bad treatment of women in the movie. Just because you have Megan Fox in hot clothing and poses doesn't especially make it a portray of women as nothing more than objects of desire considering Fox more than stands her own in an action scene or against one of the human sized robots. And then there's Isabel Lucas as the seductive human decpticon which I know kind of laying it thick in the sexual area for a supposed PG-13 movie. But it ultimately furthered the plot along so what. And I won't argue the plot or the other problems like how Bay knew geography for crap but the movie is fictional so somethings can slide. Some people need to stop nitpicking and just enjoy the movie stop getting all worked up over a fantasy world in a movie. So anyway just see the movie if you want to, don't let others negative opinion sway you, see it for yourself and decide your own opinion. I personally recommend it but my opinion is not status quo. Update: And to add furthermore, people who say this is worst movie in the world have to be ashamed of themselves, they obviously have no real experience watching movies as this movie is far, far away from being the worst. This isn't birdemic people, nor is it a Boll flick or The Room.
__label__7 My opinion, this movie is one the best cinematic events of 2009. The special effects were definitely the driving force that made this movie so successful at the box office. Now for those of you who had problems with the story, just take some time while watching this movie and put more focus into it. Then you will see that there is much more than meets the eye.For instance, in the beginning when Optimus Prime reveals that the transformers race arrived on Earth many years ago, this opens the doorway into the unknown origins of the transformers. When Starscream says "the boy will not escape us, we have him in our sights." He is talking about the the Decepticon spy who is watching Sam Witwicky disguised as a college student named Alice. The scene where Jetfire speaks about the Fallen and the seven primes shows us that the Fallen is the original deception and that the transformers were once ruled by seven great leaders. This take us deeper into the ancient origins and enter through the gateways into the massive transformers universe. Upon revealing these elements from the storyline, it is clear that there is a great amount of depth and substance in this movie, you just have to look for it.I will admit that the storyline isn't as solid as it could have been. The characters should have been developed with much more love and care and the humor was foolish and unnecessary at some points. But overall, this was a very entertaining blockbuster and a decent sequel.
__label__7 Before I begin: people, we all know the movie was not so good, but NO movie deserves 1 star as you are doing unless it is an absolute piece of crap like Epic Movie or Love Guru. 1 star ratings are for the lowest of the low and are beyond description of how bad they are. This is not one of them. OBVIOUSLY this movie had more going for it than those pieces of no good crap, seriously people, put more thought into your ratings. This movie was not like Epic movie.Overall, I enjoyed the film, but I also know it was not a very good film. Here is why...Michael Bay. Bay, as we all know, is still a child at heart...a VERY little child. Which means he finds things like sex jokes, explosions, and fooling around hilarious. We were unfortunate enough to have him put on the transformers series, honestly anyone else would have made them better. He took his inner child and spilled it all over this movie. Between robot humping, explosion after explosion, farting jokes, and overdone closeups of Megan Fox we can see the Michael Bay traits in this film. All this added together ruined a lot for me. At times it was almost hard to watch, especially when Sam's mom gets high which was not necessary, yet Bay finds it amusing. You all get the idea, Michael Bay is the reason this film had all it's negatives.Here is why I enjoyed the film. Simply because I love action. This movie delivered all of what I wanted to see in the first Transformers when it came to action. In the first one, we say very little fighting especially with Optimus. A lot of people saw the first wanting to see Optimus woop Decepticon butt, however he ended up getting HIS ass wooped. With Revenge of the Fallen, we get an all new badass Optimus Prime whose voice sounds like god, "I'll take you all on!". When I was in the theater watching Optimus during the Forest fight, the audience was rooting out loud for Optimus. The last time I saw that happen was during the 2005 King Kong T Rex fight.Overall, this movie delivers on action but fails on story which is what everyone else has been saying, but don't give it 1 star for that! 1st one had better story but not as much action, this one went vis versa. Big lack of character development in this one, way too many autobots, but it did not ruin the movie for me. What ruined a lot of it was Bay's inner child.My thought? I think Michael Bay should be pulled off the project and they should put J.J. Abrams on the project. See what he did with Star Trek? Imagine what he could do with Transformers. Let us all pray that Michael Bay does not do this again, or the 3rd movie will full out suck. Pray with me people.
__label__7 Admittably, the Transformers Franchise got worse with every movie since its really interesting first one. But Age of Extinction has to be seen as a reset of the universe. It got rid of most of the really cringy and annoying assets like Sam and some of the annoying perverted Transformers. It doesn't try to be very deep and interesting, the plot is simple and easy, a bit too long, yes, but at no point I got annoyed by the story. Most of the characters, especially the autobots have destinct roles, they don't have to be introduced, they're part of the team and do their job. Gelvatron has a really nice plottwist and some scenes are decently funny. The whole movie has some Logan vibes to it, of course without very deep conflict and not near as much emotion.I guess people still go into the movies and watch Transformers with some kind of expectation about a surprisingly good plot or expect that Bay suddenly changes his style from brainless explosion slaughter to something deep. But if you watch this film with no expectations, or at least want some action and good fighting for an evening with friends, you will be pleasently surprised. The film delivers exactly this, Good Action
__label__7 A magician finds himself transported to the magical land of Oz, where witches, flying monkeys and yellow brick roads exist. He is mistaken for the saviour of Oz and must decide whether or not to stay and be king, or leave and find his way home.I love Sam Raimi, the man and his invented work with a camera are what made me want to get into filmmaking in the first place. So to see him handling big projects like this (and Spiderman) was a joy for me to see. Oz the Great & Powerful is a CGI heavy film that demands a creative eye behind the lens. After his work on big budget films like Spiderman, it seemed like an easy choice for Raimi to be the one behind Oz and for the most part, it works. The films shortcomings keep it from being really magical and memorable, like the original from 39, but Oz has enough whimsy to keep the kids entertained and the adults smiling. The land of Oz is indeed magical, with vibrant colours around every corner, memorable spots like the poppy fields and the dark forest for us older viewers, but even in saying all that I can't help but feel how fake it all is. This film suffers from the same troubles that plagued Burton's Alice in Wonderland, the visuals, although great for the story, add no sense of realism to the image. I hate overly used CGI in films to the point of noticing the awkward placement of actors in front of the green screen. The first major offender of this is Star Wars: Attack of the Clones, none of the actors made me believe they were in the settings they were. Both Wonderland and Oz have this same feeling. While I'm getting the negatives out of the way, I must say that what everyone is saying about Mila Kunis is true, she was miscast in this role. I think she was chosen more for her beauty and star power than her acting abilities, which is sad cause it looks like she really is trying here. The story for her character here is a sad one and the second half I think suffers a bit because the threat from her is not really present. I don't really know why I'm tip-toeing around the issue because those who know The Wizard of Oz, know that Dorothy kills one witch with her house and the other with water, leaving Glinda the good witch in a bubble as the saviour. Seeing the Kunis character go in the direction she does didn't really effect me as much as I wanted it to. Consider that the failure of the script more so than the actors. Not enough time is really given to her for her transformation to affect the viewer.The film opens in black & white and and the transformation to colour had a smile on my face. Despite the "fakeness" of some of the scenes (not all) Raimi does a decent job of not letting the effects overpower the film. Raimi steers the film in the right direction, but it is James Franco's shoulders it has to rest on. He is the type of actor that comes off as not really caring. It works in some films like Pineapple Express and he does manage to turn in some great performances, look at 127 days or Freaks & Geeks for that. Unfortunately I don't know if he has enough charisma and power to command a film like this. At times it looked like he was in the role, other times it felt like he couldn't care. Maybe it's his acting style, I can't really put my finger on it, but clearly Raimi sees something in him because he has worked with him previously on the Spiderman films. Where the acting does work, marvellously and in every scene is Rachel Weisz and Michelle Williams. Two polar opposites that look like they actually enjoy the characters and the movie they are in. They elevate the material a bit to make the drama more tangible. Whereas without them I think the film would have fallen more flat. The drama and character choices didn't really bring me into the story. The film didn't feel like it took chances, or tried to have complex situations for the characters. It had mapped out beats, hit them and marched on. It was nice seeing some nice Raimi touches in the final product. More than 25 years later and I still smile when I see Bruce Campbell getting hit in the face, knowing full well that it is Sam Raimi on the other end of the camera hitting him. Surprisingly, moments did indeed feel Evil Deadish to me, with the flying witches holding out their hands in a deadite possession form. But I digress. Oz is a good film, with weaknesses that bring it down. Raimi and two witches try their best to elevate some bland material and in the end we are left with a film that is neither great, nor memorable....just satisfactory enough.
__label__7 I admit I hadn't really known much about this movie (such as what the story was about and who was playing who) until recently. Though I did find out before going to see it and, well, I think you'd be better off going into this film knowing very little about it. I've seen numerous complaints about the 'spoiling' of Theodora (Mila Kunis) turning out to be The Wicked Witch of the West, but in hindsight, the signs are all clearly there. Her big floppy hat, for one (which deserves its own credit). Then there's her voice, that you just KNOW is going to turn into that classic evil witchy cackle - which she does plenty of. Lastly, her conversation with her sister, Evanora (Rachel Weisz - who deserves all the praise she's getting, as she really *does* have fun in the role and is one of the stand-out performances), is about as subtle as a train wreck. Theodora insists she's NOT 'wicked' (a word you'll hear a plenty of throughout the film) and then promptly tosses a fireball. What ultimately turns her evil? Thinking she was the 'one and only' witch for Oz (James Franco), then believing she's but *one* of his 'one and only's, thanks to her sister's deceit. Yes, it's one of THOSE origin stories. I'd actually originally thought Weisz would turn into the Wicked Witch, back when all I knew about the movie was who was starring in it. Then once I read a bit of info about the film, it became clear this wasn't the case. Maybe the movie would have benefited from her being cast in the role? Kunis does a good witch cackle, and certainly looks the part - all greened up, pointy hat and broom-flying - but ultimately, she doesn't really convey that much...well..'wickedness'. Probably the nicest/most subtle touch was her streaking tears burning her cheeks.Those hoping for an origin story that has lots of depth and substance may find this a bit disappointing. Theodora meets Oz when he crash-lands in the wondrous realm of Oz, and within a very brief amount of time, is already infatuated with him (of course, she believes he really *is* a wizard with actual powers, so that probably has something to do with it). I didn't mind Mila when she was skipping merrily along The Yellow Brick Road, despite her naivety, but there just wasn't enough time spent developing a real solid attachment between her and Oz before she descends into villain territory. Given the overlong runtime of the film, more of it should have been devoted to their burgeoning relationship, I think. It's hard to believe Weisz wasn't Raimi's/the studio's first choice for Evanora, as she plays her perfectly. She and Glinda (Michelle Williams) have quite the witch battle at the end. The real crime here is Evanora's punishment she suffers at the end - as robbing Rachel Weisz of her beauty is just not on! I guess it does set her up to become a future pancake underneath Dorothy's house, though. Williams as Glinda is kind and sweet and floats around in a bubble (though that's apparently just for show) and has a crown that never falls off. She can also take a hit or two and manage to bounce back after Evanora goes all Emperor on her arse, zapping her with green lightning shooting from her fingertips. Williams' Glinda is fine, if not particularly interesting/memorable. The last we see of the two Wicked Witches does suggest that this may be set-up for sequels to come...or, if not, then it serves as simply a prequel to the two already existing 'Oz' films.Kunis's Theordora utters the words 'how predictable' at one point in the film, and that really could apply to the movie as a whole. It's not exactly a story you haven't seen before. There's Oz, who pretends to be a great magician, but really just uses cheap tricks. When he comes to the Land of Oz, he is of course mistaken for a real wizard. There's the expected self-doubt, then the bit where he makes everyone thinks he really is a coward, only to reveal himself to have turned noble in the end and save everyone. Nothing new to see here. Franco is adequate in the role, though his grin really makes you want to punch him in the face at times. He's also somewhat overshadowed by the witches. At least Oz's career in illusion comes in handy at the end - even if it's a bit hard to believe that such powerful witches are so easily fooled and give in so quickly. Zach Braff is Oz's offsider, both in Kansas and in the Land Of Oz - although, in the latter he is a flying monkey valet. He is intended as the film's main source of comic relief, and he has his moments. While there is some humour in the film, it's not exactly big on laughs. Joey King, meanwhile, does tug at the heartstrings as a girl in a wheelchair who asks Oz to make her walk, when she's seeing his performance. She also provides the voice for China Girl - a wonderfully brought to life creation...that sadly verges on the irritating, personality-wise. So much damn crying! And that must have been some fast-acting glue Oz had on him that he used to put her back together.Starting the film in black & white and a vintage aspect ratio does help set the tone of the film, plus it creates that nostalgic feel for the classic original film. The visuals are quite stunning, but after a while the novelty wears off. Visuals can't make up for a lacklustre story, and sadly, despite the direction/look of the film and some good performances, Oz the Great and Powerful just doesn't quite live up to its title. In the end, it's good...but not great.
__label__7 In 1905, in Kansas, the small-time circus magician Oscar "Oz" Diggs (James Franco) is a weak, greedy, selfish and womanizer conman without character. He gives music box to the women that he seduces, and when a strong artist finds that his wife has a box in her belongings, he chases Oz through the circus. Oz flees in a balloon, but a tornado strikes his balloon and he lands on the Land of Oz.Oscar meets the gorgeous Theodora (Mila Kunis) and she believes that he is the powerful magician from an ancient prophecy that will release her land from the Wicked Witch. Theodora tells that her sister and she are good witches, but the Wicked Witch had killed the king. Now the people are waiting for the magician to be their new king after defeating the witch. Theodora is seduced by Oz and brings him to the City of Emerald. When he sees the king's treasure, he decides to seek out the Wicked Witch and destroy her magic wand to get rid off her and become the king. Oz meets Glinda (Michelle Williams), who is supposed to be the Wicked witch, and soon he learns that Theodora's sister Evanora (Rachel Weisz) is the evil one indeed. Meanwhile Evanora lures he sister that is jealous and uses a spell to turn her into a wicked witch. Oscar learns that he is the only hope for the inhabitants of Oz that believe that he is a powerful magician and his only chance to defeat Evanora and Theodora is using illusion since he has no magic power."Oz the Great and Powerful" is an entertaining fantasy movie, with beautiful special effects and great cast. The beginning in black and white turns to bright colors when Oz reaches the magic kingdom and the images are wonderful. It takes too long for the unethical lead character to redeem and become a good man. For viewers that enjoy fantasy movies, "Oz the Great and Powerful" is a highly recommended movie. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "Oz: Mágico e Poderoso" ("Oz: Magic and Powerful")
__label__7 I'm an unabashed die hard fan boy for Spider-Man. There I said it. You can call me a homer for anything Spider-Man. I wasn't a happy camper when I heard they were rebooting the films that I fell in love with. The first two Raimi films for me were great. The sequel still holding up today as one of the best superhero movies of all time. The first Amazing Spider-Man was a bit jarring for me. I walked out of the film not knowing what I thought about it. I enjoyed Andrew Garfield's Spider-Man but his Peter Parker didn't click with me. I also had some nit picky things about the film as a whole (Gwen instead of Mary Jane, lackluster villain). But watching the film a few more times I realized that I liked it.I do research on films that I'm excited for. This film came out weeks earlier in the UK and Europe. And the reviews were mixed which was sinking my high hopes. I didn't like the fact that there were three villains (More on that later). But it seemed like they were choosing the right actors for parts and surrounding the film in talent. After much heart and headache reading people thoughts and reviews for me, I'm okay with saying I liked much of this second Spider-Man film.Andrew Garfield is Spider-Man and it seems he's embraced the part much more this time than in the first film. His Spider-Man is having fun being the savior of the city. He's making the quips, the jokes and the all around energy of his Spider-Man feels directly out of the comic book. I am finally sold on his Peter Parker. Director Marc Webb finally lets the smart but dorky Parker shine in a few scenes that are hilarious and engaging.I'm still not an Emma Stone fan but she is a good counter to Garfield's Parker. They have excellent chemistry. You can tell that these may be Webb's favorite scenes to shoot. When they are on screen this huge summer tent pole film because a small drama about two people with a unique love story. The villains, there are three of them but not really. Let me explain. Rhino played basically as a cameo by Paul Giamatti is really only on screen to show Spider-Man in action at the beginning and end of the film. His main adversaries are Jamie Foxx's Electro who starts off as a man who is saved by Spider-Man. He then becomes a obsessed fan only to in perfect comic book fashion have a horrible accident that grants him superpowers. Foxx is okay, I wouldn't say he is awful. He has some good moments and contrary to what has been written I think he only has one cringe worthy line.Dane DeHaan is one of if not my favorite actor working this moment. His method style works so well in many of the films he's in and here it's perfect. His Harry Osborn is less cartoon-y than James Franco's from previous films. He's creepy, spoiled, arrogant but dealt with a lot of adversity. His chemistry with Garfield feels genuine. It doesn't feel forced like it could have been. They are long time friends who have been distant but because of new circumstances are forced back together.The action is fun, fast and so Spider-Man if that means anything. The way they use his spider sense was very cool. I want to see more of that. The small nods to the comic book are fantastic. There are nods here and there to the upcoming sinister six film which doesn't cloud the film. It's just there in the story that this is apart of a large story in the future. I was trying to count the nods to the comic books. The only issues I had with the film was Peter's search for what happen to his father was kind of just there to fill time. Also the great Sally Field as Aunt May got only a few scenes. She was great on screen but mostly wasted.Because this film is dividing fans I think I've pinpointed the problem. I'm a fan of the comic books and this film feel like a few issues of the comic books aka a mini-series. There are multiple stories, with multiple villains and a lot going on. I'm okay with the finally product and eager to see the film again. For Garfield's performance, the chemistry with Stone and the action scenes this film is a fun ride for any fan of the neighborhood web shooter.
__label__7 Superheroes are heroic because they feel a moral obligation to help the average Joe. Not this Spider-Man. All the characters struggle against the system that has perpetuated falsehoods. The main characteristic of the film is the gloomy atmosphere, emphasizing the desolate hopelessness. The cinematography is stark and bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. The acting is very effective. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them. But it's a two-hour pile of destructive self-obsession.
__label__7 The original movie was generic. While it's far from bad, it's plot was simplistic in terms of the overall focus being on the good vs evil side and less on the thematic element it established of Flynn and all users being gods. It serves as a mythology, however, to a much more insightful legend which unfolds in this movie. But the problem is, due to the somewhat simplistic nature of the predecessor, people failed to give attention to the themes of this film, preferring to focus on the generic side as that's what they'd expect from a Tron movie. But the movie doesn't stay generic, so when viewers find nothing simple to see they assume the movie is empty. It's not, they're minds are just preset to look for simple "turn off your brain and be entertained" values, which simply aren't present in this film.The whole movie, just like the original, is similar to the idea of a religious mythology. The original featured programs as disciples of the users, enslaved for their belief. But that plays a small role overall. Here, when the Grid is reprogrammed to the image of Kevin Flynn, Flynn is established to the status of "the one true god" at least of this version of the grid, and all the other users who contribute new programs are just angels. But the maker of this world is Flynn, regardless of whether or not he writes the fates of these people. So, much like the original Hebrew form of god, he is not so much a ruler who demands worship or enforce any rules but just a wise and experienced being here to help when he's needed.And it's not so much an analogy to call Flynn god as it is TRUE. He has successfully created a world, not a platform. A world that's self sustaining and requires no more intervention of the users, as displayed by the ISOs which created themselves and were programmed by no-one.And this demands many questions! If they'd been allowed to live, would the ISOs have made this world like our own in thousands of years? Does this mean that's how our own god could have created our own world and how we came to be? Questions of such layered nature can't simply be ignored as style over substance.And then there comes CLU, the best friend of Flynn who he trusted. But as god, I dare say it, may have been somewhat confused in his image he had for the world in his early form, so did Flynn suffer from this same confusion of image for his world. This causes CLU to suffer a similar fate of uncertainty, making him only able to understand that his god is incapable of creating a perfect world since he can't imagine one. Thus, taking matters into his own hands, he abandons his god and does what he sees to be right. But the problem is he expects to get a different result with the same thinking as his flawed god, the only thinking he has been exposed to, and makes even worse mistakes than his god, making Flynn see the errors of his ways. Thus, a most appropriate analogy, CLU becomes the Satan to Flynn's god.But the ultimate piece of symbolism that outmatches anything else in the movie, is the final attempt of CLU to get Flynn's disc. He realizes Flynn has tricked him, by giving the disc he sought to his son. He discovered that the son of Flynn, and thus the son of a god, has obtained the disc and power he seeks, and thus he must obtain it. There is so much symbolism that flies past viewers in what happens next. When CLU realizes he has been tricked, he raises his disc to derez Flynn and then go get the right one, but only violently places the disc beside Flynn, subtly showing in the end he still considered Flynn his friend and could not bring himself to kill him. CLU runs to obtain this disc from the obstacle stopping him from having the ultimate power, showing the rivalry between the Satan and savior of this world.Such themes like this show the filmmakers truly put a lot of thought into their creation, not a lack of it, so people need to stop discrediting them and their work.
__label__7 Kevin Flynn (Bridges) is the CEO of Encom and the world's best video game developer. One night he simply vanishes without a trace and leaves his company in chaos and his young son. Fast-forward 20 years, Sam Flynn (Hedlund) is a rebellious 27 year old and a thorn in the side of Richard Mackey (Nordling), a suit trying to take over his father's company with the help of a software designer (an uncredited cameo from Cillian Murphy). Though Sam is the heir, he refuses to play an active role in the decision-making process. Alan Bradley (Boxleitner) meets him one night with the news that he has received a page from Kevin Flynn's arcade - a number that has been disconnected for 20 years. Thus ensues the inevitable investigation into his father's whereabouts and Sam's transportation into the world his father has created and been trapped in for decades.Where to begin? Tron: Legacy is a visual feast for your eyes and an auditory pleasure thanks to Daft Punk and Joseph Trapanese. The soundtrack feels ethereal almost and fits perfectly with this new world we have been introduced to for the first time (or the 2nd time if you've seen the 1982 original). 3D, for me, is a recent scourge that has been infecting and affecting the movie industry. Yes, maybe it is a more lucrative avenue for the movie industry after the setback of heavy piracy but enough is enough! Joseph Kosinski, however, had a vision (and an architectural degree behind him) to give us a mouth-opening, simply beautiful world with the correct blend of 2D and 3D! It is quite simply worth it just to go for the visuals.What the movie makes up for in spectacular imagery, it lacks in storyline. Maybe I should have watched the 1982 version as so many people have pointed out to me but even without it, the plot seems a little disjointed. The underlying connections to the real world are numerous such as The Holocaust, God complexes, evil doppelgangers and more. You are left with more questions than answers as it is never revealed just what it is about this world that would "change everything" in the real world.Jeff Bridges is great as both the villain and hero and his computer animated self is simply amazing although at the same time off-putting (this might be the Uncanny Valley hypothesis at work). The acting overall is not anything to write home about (no Oscar winners here) but Hedlund as Sam Flynn holds his own against a more charismatic Jeff Bridges. Quorra (Wilde) provides a potential love interest and the key to changing our world and a doe-eyed innocent view of life that is endearing.This is a movie that should be simply taken for what it is, a pandering to the original fan base whilst garnering new ones, one not to be over- analysed but simply to be marvelled at with a group of friends. The actions scenes are just jaw-dropping with light cycles (that I wish I owned!) and deadly Frisbees amongst other things. Disney took a risk to continue a series almost 3 decades later rather than going for the easy option of re-imagining it. A wise move.
__label__7 Just got back from Tron. This film looks frickin' amazing. The SFX are incredible. I saw it in 3D, but to be honest I didn't notice it much, so it's hard to say whether it is better than 2D.Watch out for spoilers! Plot: Not too bad. Pretty standard idea: a bunch of computer generated AI want out.Story: Half-baked. The major flaw is that the story is told in a very shallow fashion. There's interesting things going on like a rebellion, but it's only given a cursory nod. What would have been better is if the protagonists interacted with the underground rebellion. The rebels play only a bit part in a single scene, which is a shame. Jeff Bridges' character also seems to possess some kind of aura/status, but it's underplayed. He appears to have an effect on his surroundings, but it's not given full use. The character of Tron is also largely wasted.Acting: Nothing too great. Not bad by any means. Jeff Bridges' human character seems to be trying to channel the Dude from The Big Lebowski, and it's ineffective. Maybe that's how people spoke in 1985, but it just sounds silly.SFX: Unbe-frickin-lievable. This film has style in spades. Even with the slightly rubbish way the story plays out, the visuals make it worthwhile. While a little disappointed in the story, my eyes were glutting themselves on the CGI. Very, very cool.End result: 9 out of 10 for the visuals. 6 out of 10 for the average storyline. 7 out of 10 final score and well worth the money to see it on the big screen.
__label__7 It is true that this film is not like others Pixar films.But it is not acctualy so bad.Many review-writers is telling that this film is huge disappointment,and I think it is not true.I think that expectations was too big.So,this is story about cars.About one friendship.They are completely different,but they are best friends.There is lot of nice,simple humor in the story.The scenario is "smooth" and it is easy watchable.There are much of action,surprises,cool techniques,like in James Bond. Yes,we could not expect that,but it is really OK .The characters are in many different places and they are meeting a different people.Characters are 3D,they have feelings and we feel empathy about them.But,there is a "dark side" of film,which is not like Pixar.Enemies,propaganda and that stuff.These problems confuses and my 10 year old brother.It is not ugly or violent,it is just confusing to kids.About animation,I will not discuss.It is still Pixar;great animations and visuals and everything about it.This is family film and it is really relaxing and enjoyable.Maybe sometimes is confusing,but it is not acctualy so bad.Because of action and messages that film gives: 7/10
__label__7 Cars 2 wasn't the worst thing I'd ever seen, but on the other hand, it was nowhere NEAR as good as the original.It was a cute movie with some pretty funny scenes, but it didn't have a memorable story, or anything really to let you love it.I barely even watch it, in fact. If I am bored, it's a cute movie to watch, but it's not very intriguing.It's more of a comedy, honestly.The first one to me, meant finding yourself, who you truly are, and taking time to settle down. It was memorable, it was beautiful, and it had funny jokes.This one is just a silly movie hiring a country boy as a spy to defeat a guy who is called a lemon.Not much to this one as the first one, but honestly, if you want a action spy movie with a not-very exciting plot, you can watch this.
__label__7 We all know that Pixar makes incredible movies, I personally have never disliked a Pixar film. The first "Cars" film, was a great movie, not a perfect film. It was one of the least better films, Pixar has made, but that's like saying, Insomnia was one of Christopher Nolan's worst films. I had high expectations when coming to see the film, like I always have before I see a Pixar film.After my viewing of the film, I have to say Pixar never fails to produce a great, entertaining film. Although it doesn't reach the heights of Wall-E, Toy Story 3, etc. It still stands by itself pretty high up there. The animation is extremely well done, the look of the film is amazing. The voice actors are great, I miss Paul Newman though. Although the film is not perfect. The movie is not perfect though, the story is not great, but not bad, the movie does not have the emotional as other Pixar films, but it is definitely not a heartless film. But the film is definitely entertaining and a great beginning to 2011 Summer movie season. Take your whole family to see this movie, it will probably not disappoint. It will not only satisfy kids, but also the adults, this film is for everyone. Fun for kids, but the adults can also connect with it and will have a great time watching this movie in theaters. It is quite an adventure and I will be glad to give it a second viewing.
__label__7 The saddest thing about Pixar today is, they don't know what movie they are going to release on their 25th Anniversary since one of their upcoming projects "Newt" was cancelled despite from Blue Sky's Rio plot. Cars 2 feels like it's a direct-to-DVD film. It's not really bad but it's just unnecessary. Though, the action is pretty cool. The kids will enjoy it but the rest is like Rango. Instead of Western Themes, it's Spy movies. The story isn't bad except it doesn't give anything emotional and heartwarming unlike the other Pixar movies. Cars 2 is pretty fun but the most important ingredient of their movies is missing.Firstly, the lead of the film is Mater. The theme of the film is Espionage but it's just some sort of an animated version of a particular spy movie. Everything moves here. There are too many action that any kid can enjoy but the story is probably too interesting for grown ups. If the movie gets focused to the plot, the kids might get bored. The missing Pixar element here is the heartwarming moments. The movie still has a heart but it fails to be compelling. Don't worry about the humor, that is one thing they will never fail. Some of the writing seems rushed.The voices do what they do best. John Lasseter knows what to do in this movie. The animation is obviously pretty good. The score is a bit generic that you may hear in any movie or television show. The action keeps everything moving. Watching the car fighting scenes is like watching a kid playing his little toy cars and let them do something fun. Which is pretty impressive.In Pixar, the craftsmanship or the animation doesn't quite matter. It's all about the compelling story and the emotional heartwarming moments. It's hard to say Cars 2 is bad film. Pixar still knows how to make a good movie but without their important elements, it's like you're watching a movie from a different studio. Once again, it's pretty fun but if you expect a lot of Pixar magic then you might get disappointed.
__label__7 (Flash Review)Cars 2 switches tracks a bit from being based in a small town to world-wide jet setter and oddly Mater seems to take center stage in this film. This film plays out like a Bond film and Mater sort of like the Pink Panther (if I understand that character correctly) as someone who inadvertently gets in the way of criminals and their plans and sort of helps the secret agents along the way, while McQueen competes in worldwide races. As an automobile and racing fan, I loved this film as there were a plethora of fun, foreign and classic cars all mixed in along the way and the races mixed NASCAR, Formula 1, Rally, and other endurance sports cars; pretty neat. From a parent of a small child perspective, it was a little advanced for kids as there was a theme of big oil vs alternative fuels and a lot more guns and peril for a G Rated movie and from the first Cars. Overall, it was fun and exciting and amusing humor of Mater the rural bloke vs international high scale people.
__label__7 I am one of the few that actually had more fun with this sequel than the first one. Sure, it has elements that has been done in other movies before, except it revolves around living cars. But the creativity and clever moments makes this one a entertaining ride. While the first one's protagonist was Lightning this time, the likable hillbilly truck Mater takes the spotlight. Sure, he maybe dunce but he is a likable and funny dunce. One of the premise that doesn't get old for me, is where a average or below Joe gets put in a over a top situation. And some of the characters surrounding him or her mistakenly think he or she to be some sort of a amazing hero or heroine. The dialogue is hip and fun, the comedic parts may seem a bit childish, but it's clever and I personally thought it was funny. The animation goes into another level with this one, and the detail when it comes to the environments which takes place in Radiator Springs, Japan, Paris and England. And the animation is again superb and better. Sure, it's not in depth or emotional as the other Pixar movies, but it's still a entertaining good time. I also think the transition to Mater was a good idea, because it brings out a certain amount of uniqueness. As a matter of fact this movie kinda reminded me of animated version "Tucker & Dale vs. Evil", except it's for the whole family to enjoy.7.8/10
__label__7 Now let me begin by saying this film is not an amazing film. It is definitely not an awful film, like most critics are saying. I think critics might have raised their expectations due to Thor and X-Men: First Class. They should not compare the Green Lantern with those films. It is ranked now 24% on Rotten Tomatoes, which is way too low. It would probably be in the high 60s, if it was released before Thor and X-Men: First Class.The acting in the film is good and not terrible at all. Ryan Reynolds is great as Hal Jordan and extremely likable. He definitely fits the role as Hal Jordan really well. Blake Lively is great and extremely sexy, she's not just a pretty face as most are suggesting. Peter Sarsgaard is a great actor and he plays the villainous Hector Hemmond really well and interesting. Overall everyone tries their best and at the end of the day do a really great job, certainly no Oscar worthy performances, though.The special effects are pretty superb and extremely worthwhile to say the least. Although it sometimes feel a little CGIish, but it doesn't get too big of a distraction. I have to say I was a little disappointed how Parallax looked like, it felt a little fake at times, but it is not horrible in any sense of the way. Also the film did not take itself seriously which is kind of refreshing. Which could be the reason why critics disliked it so much. They want another sad, personal and serious story. Unlike Thor and X-Men, The Green Lantern is more kids friendly.The main problem of the film was that they were trying to cram stuff in from the comics and the personal lives of the other characters. It seems that there could be so many sequels for the other characters. It did kind of focus on too many characters. Also the editing gets to be a little distracting at times, they certainly needed to have done a better job, but the editing is mediocre at best.Overall the Green Lantern was a fun summer flick. Although it is nowhere near the realm of The Dark Knight, it didn't need to be. The 3D was actually really good and the special effects were memorable. No doubt, the critics were extremely tough on the Green Lantern and it is unfair. At the end of the day, don't listen to the critics. Make up your mind and see this film. At the end of the day, it should be only your opinion that matters to you. You might agree with the critics or you might not. However don't skip this movie because of the low Rotten Tomatoes score.
__label__7 While I admit this movie had it's flaws, I do strongly believe this movie has been vastly underrated by the public. Unfortunately Green Lantern came at a time when comic inspired novels have been done almost to death. While most done quite brilliantly (most being the operative word here) Green Lantern I believe did not live up to the expectations we now have of comic adaptations.Ryan Reynolds as Hal Jordan was a great choice for the role of The Green Lantern, the character arc while helping you to understand the character of Hal Jordan was sufficient I do believe they could of well exceeded what they did.For a story as immense as the Green Lantern I believe that the close to two hours was to short to completely describe and help understand the Green Lantern universe. The length I believe to be the biggest drawback in this movie. In my opinion the movie should of been closer to the length of The Watchmen to completely illustrate the complexity and brilliance that the Green Lantern universe really is.For me, I believed the hype going into this movie, I had a completely closed mind and fully expected this movie to be as one critic described it "Green Lantern, The worst comic book movie ever made". Honestly I have to say that I'm glad that I read that review before viewing this movie as it made it all that sweeter when the movie went beyond all I thought it would be and greatly impressed me.I'm sorry that this movie was received so badly because the chances of seeing a sequel have dropped and in a universe where anything is possible I think we will miss out on all that the Green Lantern franchise could be.
__label__7 Another in a long line of comic book films released this year, Green Lantern unfortunately doesn't compare to Thor, X-Men: First Class or Captain America. Had I seen Green Lantern *before* seeing those other three films, perhaps I wouldn't be as critical of it. But those previous movies set a high standard that this latest comic book movie doesn't quite reach. I feel a large part of why GL isn't as successful as the films before it is the pace and editing. A film about aliens, space police and a ring that can transform thought into reality should all come together to make one hell of an interesting film, but somehow the movie suffers from a seemingly sluggish pace in the beginning (thanks to a rather snore-worthy voice-over, explaining things that we need to know) before anything really interesting happens. Starting movies with prologues/exposition *can* be interesting, but this one manages to make everything that *should* be interesting somehow dull. It's actually very disappointing, given that director Martin Campbell was behind two of the best Bond movies ever (Goldeneye and Casino Royale). Those films never had a dull moment in them, whereas GL seems to have too many.I'm one who hadn't known the first thing about Green Lantern - having never read the comics - before seeing this movie. Having heard the name a while back, I figured it was just some dude who liked the colour green and walked around with an old-timey lantern. Luckily, it's a bit more interesting than that. It actually involves a ring and a human, Hal Jordan (Ryan Reynolds), who the ring chooses to join an intergalactic military/police force known as the Green Lantern Corps. Turns out I wasn't entirely wrong, as there is indeed a lantern involved, but thankfully it's not old-timey and he doesn't just carry it around with him wherever he goes. Though he does swear an oath to it - one of the lighter moments in the film.Reynolds wasn't apparently many people's ideal actor to play Hal, but I think he serves the role of the jet-fighter-test-pilot-turned-universe-protector well. Yes, he does play a bit of a jerk and he does have some funny lines, but he's also believable in the more serious moments. When he recites the oath for the second time, you know he's grown as a character. Reynolds is convincing in his portrayal of Hal's flaws as a person, and by the end you're on his side.The lovely and very aptly named Blake Lively is a breath of fresh air, livening things up and injecting some much-needed energy into the otherwise kinda dull proceedings. As Carol Ferris, she's not only a fellow pilot with Hal, but also someone with whom Hal has a history. Not just another ordinary/boring love interest, she's able to stand up to Hal, not take his crap and can handle herself admirably. Best of all, though? She's no idiot. Most awesomely, Hal's lame Superman-in-glasses-like attempt to cover up his identity with nothing more than a small green mask doesn't work on Carol. As she says, she's known him her whole life and not being able to see his cheek bones isn't going to fool her. She immediately recognises it's him. Other superheroes' love interests would do well to learn from Carol (take note, Lois Lane!). The scene where he tries out his best Batman voice on her (after having earlier rescued her in public from a crashing helicopter by creating a race track for it to land on) is one of the best in the entire film. Carol's reactions to seeing through Hal's mask are really quite good/amusing. It's one of the more unique things about the film - where most tend to have the 'love interest' remain in the dark or look stupid for not having figured out things early on. I liked how Carol wasn't just giving Hal crap nonstop, but also encouraged him/saved him. Lively and Reynolds have decent chemistry and share some good moments together. Though the rest/supporting characters, both human & alien, are all rather average. This lack of character development lets the film down.It also doesn't help that the villain/s of the film are among some of the most non-scary & laugh-worthy villains ever to appear in comic book films (up there with Green Goblin). Parallax is nothing more than a big angry dust cloud that zaps people with yellow. You know you're in trouble when this is the 'Big Bad' of the movie. The film's 'Little Bad' is hair-sniffer, Hector Hammond (Peter Sarsgaard), who becomes infected by Parallax and gains telepathic/telekinetic abilities as a result...but also (literally) gets a big head - doesn't really seem like a fair trade-off. Our fat-headed villain is gross to look at, but other than that, he's not particularly effective. He's just another poor sod with daddy issues and bad luck. He shares minimal dialogue with Hal and Carol, and yet we're supposed to buy them as people who know each other well. The only real tense moment I felt involving them was was when Hector's threatening to make Carol like him - something no SANE person would want to see happen.What I felt really let the film down was the pacing. Things seem to be shown to us in a strange order a lot of the time, and it just feels 'off'. I will say that the movie did allow for some interesting uses of CGI - the constructs Hal forms with his mind/the ring are pretty exciting & creative. The flying was also good. And it makes sense his costume looks the way it does, since it's created out of energy.This isn't a bad film as such, it just isn't all that it could have been. Still, here's hoping that a sequel improves on it. Despite all the flaws, I do wish to see Hal Jordan and Carrol Ferris again. Until then, go green!
__label__7 Comic book adaptations are quickly becoming one of the most popular movie genres of the modern era. With high speed action, a good story and some great acting, who could blame it. however there is one film that is constantly battered by fans and movie goers alike.Yes, this is my review of Green Lantern.(Note; I do not believe in Millions of years, so i'm just going to leave it out of this review. I ignore usually these kind of references)The plot goes like this;Somewhere in the universe, a mighty force of nature called Parallax, who feeds on the fear of the universe, escapes custody by a green lantern warrior known as Abin Sur. Parallax fatally wounds Abin but he narrowly escapes instant death in an escape pod. He contacts the rest of the green lanterns and tells them who he encountered and that he will die. His pod lands on earth and at the brink of death he is met by a man who was brought there by his power ring. He passes on the ring to the man, Hal Jordan, and tells him to speak the oath. He does, and becomes one of the green lanterns. It eventually falls on him to save the universe from Parallax and defeat him once and for all.While this movie doesn't live up to the standards of "Captain America- The First Avenger" or the Nolan Batman Trilogy, this film is still quite enjoyable.I'll admit, the acting wasn't that great. There was no real character that stood out for me as being well acted but it was still watchable. As for the characters themselves, they were quite interesting. Although the human characters were interesting to an extent, It's the green lanterns that stole the show. Their is one scene were all the green lanterns are having a conference of some sort. There are so many green lanterns that sometimes all you see is green. Each one looks different and unique; I actually pause at this part to see what other strange beings i missed inn the first viewing. Props to the designers for creating some brilliant looking creatures.The story isn't to special, but it is interesting. It's nothing more than the normal super-hero origin story, with a couple of unorthodox plot lines. The movie's ending tells you that there is another movie coming. I won't spoil, But green Lantern fans will like it, If they didn't like the movie itself. The villain, I thought, is what brings the film down a notch. Halfway through the film a scientist gets infected by the power source of Parallax, corrupting him into a monstrous creature that can control objects with his eyes. I wasn't too fond of the guy. His motives for his actions were uninteresting making some of the "intence" scenes a little tedious, but this is a minor fault.Parallax is more impressive. There are some scenes were he is tearing through the city eating everything in his path. However, like the other guy (Who's name escapes me), Parallax lacks motive for what he does other than the fact he needs fear to become more powerful.One of the most interesting things about the green lanterns is the power to make thought reality. For example, you can think of a massive artillery gun and it would appear right beside you. This is an interesting concept and is far more diverse to other superheros. Although there are plenty of scenes of this power, I thought it was under used; Sometimes all they did was fire balls of green energy at their enemies which I thought was a waste. Don't let that put you off though. There are some impressive action scenes to sink your teeth into. The battle at the end with Parallax is definitely worth seeing. It didn't have as much action as i thought it would have or would have liked but it still was satisfying.All in all, a great summer action flick. Not everyone's cup of tea but if you just like watching movies and are willing to bypass mistakes, this is the film for you. With over use of CGI ad badly created villains, it wasn't the best way to start a franchise but it is still enjoyable none the less.
__label__7 In 1938, comic Imigination arrived at Dectective Comics with the Introducted of the Dark Knight also called The Batman. Before long a plethora of others soon followed, among them was the mysterious " Green Lantern. " Hal Jordan AKA Green Lantern are both played by Ryan Reynold. The story reaches back to the 20th century and the space age. Here we find our hero and his special selection by a celestial being who reaches into his chosen's human heart to learn that he possesses true Courage and no fear. That, then is the primary ingredient for his selection and the gist of the legend. Once you enter the myth of the Green Lantern, you also enter the vast din of the Universe and it's mystical powers, where beings from other planets are collected to fight their Nemesis, . . . Fear. This film does it's best to take our Hero and the audience to their world and the battlefield of the Universe. It's a fabulous journey and one which is responsible for the enjoyment of the cinema, A great slice of DC comics transformed into the stuff of imagination and the world of Entertainment. Recommended to all. ****
__label__7 I was actually rather surprised that this film was as enjoyable as it was. After reading several scathing reviews I was very worried going into this film. Overall I had a good time watching it.Now I should preface this with the fact that I am a huge fan of the Terminator films/franchise. I think that overall the look was amazing, the action and CG were great and the acting was mostly good. I think the film suffered from not enough character development and I think that McG was on the right track, but needed a tighter script and story to work with. You can tell in the film that he is a fan of the first films... I definitely got a kick out of all the throw backs to the films. Not just the obvious ones like the music choices or one liners, but also subtle things like single handed shotgun cocking or single handed pipe blows, or the choice of settings and shots.I have to say that Anton Yelchin as Kyle Reese did a fantastic job. He was probably my biggest worry in the film as Michael Biehn's, Kyle Reese is probably my favorite character in anything ever, so basically he had big shoes to fill. Well I didn't think it possible, but he actually made me love that character even more. So mad props to him. Again I think this was a very valiant effort by McG, he needs to work out a couple kinks for the next films, which I really he gets the green light on.Basically there are a few of loopholes and inconsistencies which could bring you down if you linger too long on them, but if you are able to get past that it is definitely worth watching. But those are in all the films, even the second has some. (I'm not saying it's better than, so don't stone me!) In short I had a lot of fun at Terminator Salvation.
__label__7 Terminator Salvation gets panned left and right.....but let me first say this is way more better then T3 and Genisys by miles.Not only is it a serious terminator movie.....its more faithful to the first 2, yes it has plot holes and not die hard terminator violence but what do you expect when companies are trying to make everything PG13 for money.This is the Terminator movie you get, to throwbacks to Guns n Rose you could be mine to a CGI arnie wreaking havoc, yes it could of been done better but some of it is actually really good, just accept and stop expecting the greatness of T2, that was cameron and this is MCG two different directors.The acting is good, don't know what everyone is going on about with Bale being a weak connor when he is perfect for the role, yelchin plays a fantastic kyle reese and sam worthington is great as marcus.Relax, watch and enjoy a good summer action movie with no expectations, the opening helicopter scene is a work of art.TS - 7/10
__label__7 TS is a film that will wow your eyes and ears. It will be a standard for demonstrating the latest high-end home theater systems for several years. Do not, however, go to this film to stimulate the imagination. The plot has many holes patched with barely-there plot devices. I'm reminded of the film Thank You For Smoking when the character Jeff Mengall spoke of Hollywood plot holes getting filled with lines like "Thank God we invented the... you know, whatever device." In previous Terminator films, you could always assume that sending anything back in time took a lot of energy and resources - that's why you could accept that there was only one Terminator instead of 2+ working together. In this film, we are made to believe that fighting Skynet is like out-maneuvering a herd of angry elephants with laser beams on their heads.In all, I gave this film a 7 because it does what a good futuristic action film should do: wows the eyes and ears. Just don't forget to check your disbelief at the door.
__label__7 Enough with the copycat comments! Everybody is so keen to criticize this film, while completely ignoring its good parts. Was there some plot weirdness? Well, yeah, we are talking humans winning versus machines here. But most of it was decent.In this film you get to see more machine types, more character ambivalence (do you even remember the first Terminator? it was machine fascism!), more hints to the previous movies and, most of all, hints of the direction of the Terminator concept. I don't want to spoil it for you, but you must be blind not to see it is a good thing.Other good things in this movie: Moon Bloodgood, the Oh-girl; Michael Ironside, just as fun as ever, even if having some scenes. And there is Sam Worthington, who is actually the main character and more like Help from BSG, but twice as cool, NOT Christian Bale aka John Connor.I am surprised to see that both Terminator the series and the new Terminator are bringing some modernism to the old age concept of machine war. They are obviously not without flaw, but considering the alternatives and, even more, my expectations, I would say that saying this film was bad must be just some fashionable thing to say right now.Bottom line: I liked it!
__label__7 Christian Bale has proved that he is a fantastic actor. For me, this was just a paycheck movie for him. A very mechanical performance, in some scenes it seemed he never lets go of his Batman character. The movie itself was entertaining for the most part, but lacked the suspense that the first two Terminator films had. A quality that James Cameron possesses as a director that has been lost in the last two films. The screenwriters for Salvation can't decide who the main character is and what the main plot of the film is. Hoping that Salvation would revive the Terminator franchise, I was left with a bad taste in my mouth once again. It was a loud action film with no substance. Better luck next time.
__label__7 A really good movie and not a bad action movie I really like it, the whole gang is here. Fast Five (2011) is still to me the best one and my favorite in the franchise and then it would be Furious 6 than The Fast and the Furious I think this would be my fourth favorite film in the franchise. It is an entertaining fun fast paced action film and that really a good one. But it is not perfect I have issues with the film which I will get to it but first I want to write goods about this film.I can't wait till I watch The Fate of the Furious I am getting on Blu-ray next week so yesterday I re-watch this film and I have enjoy it. Furious 7 is the seventh installment in The Fast and the Furious franchise. The film grossed $397.6 million worldwide during its opening weekend, which is the sixth highest-grossing opening of all time. The film has grossed over $1.5 billion worldwide – more than the franchise's first five installments combined – making it the highest-grossing film of the franchise after just twelve days, the third highest-grossing film of 2015 and the sixth highest-grossing film of all time. A sequel, The Fate of the Furious, was released on April 14, 2017.The film's about Dominic Toretto (Diesel), Brian O'Conner (Walker), and the rest of their team, who have returned to the United States to live normal lives after securing amnesty for their past crimes in Fast & Furious 6 (2013), until Deckard Shaw (Jason Statham), a rogue special forces assassin seeking to avenge his comatose younger brother, puts the team in danger once again. The cast includes: Vin Diesel, Paul Walker, Dwayne Johnson, Michelle Rodriguez, Tyrese Gibson, Chris "Ludacris" Bridges, Jordana Brewster, Djimon Hounsou, Kurt Russell, and Jason Statham. I like this flick they action is crazier than ever, there's some unnecessary camera moves and this one needs an even bigger suspension of disbelief, it barely pauses in between set pieces. Kurt Russell is in this and like I have said in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 my review I hated his performance in that movie but in here I loved him he was awesome and a really good guy and likable. He has more to do in this film than he did in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2. Vin Diesel as Dominic Toretto is always terrific and a bad-ass I absolutely love him. Jason Statham is a crazy motherf***** in this I have enjoyed him I always wanted Statham as a bad guy. Michelle Rodriguez as Letty Ortiz Dom's girlfriend was hot as always I have simply enjoyed her. The rest of the cast was alright.The issues with the film I have is: Why is shaky cam in the beginning of the fights between Dwayne Johnson and Jason Statham and on the end of the fights between Vin Diesel and Jason Statham that really hurts this film. I got a migraine because of the shaking cam.Dwayne Johnson was only in the beginning of the film and for the rest of the film he was departure he appeared only on the end of the film in the final showdown I only wish he would be more in this film and he would have more to do but I still have enjoyed his performance awesome. Jordana Brewster as Mia Toretto is useless in this movie she doesn't do nothing her character is just wasted and useless. I don't know why they put her character in this movie. Lucky Michelle Rodriguez fulfill the emptiness in Dom's crew. Car's with flying parachutes also doesn't fit in the film because of the metal weight parachutes can't hold that kind of metal and some unnecessary CGI was used in this film that also hurt the movie. Those are all the issues I have, I can't wait for The Fate of the Furious to see it I heard it is a good film.The rating this film get's is a A 9/10 I would have give it 10 but those issues in my opinion hurt the film. Paul Walker died in November 30 2013 so his two brothers Caleb and Cody Walker replaced him and they help to make this film right so I have enjoy from all three brothers performance. R.I.P. Paul Walker my favorite actor and my all time favorite character of the franchise Brian O'Conner. This film is dedicated to his memory which I love. Furious 7 (alternatively known as Fast & Furious 7 and Fast 7) is a 2015 American action film directed by James Wan and written by Chris Morgan. It is the seventh installment in The Fast and the Furious franchise.9/10 Grade: A Studio: Universal Pictures Starring: Vin Diesel, Paul Walker, Dwayne Johnson, Michelle Rodriguez, Tyrese Gibson, Chris "Ludacris" Bridges, Jordana Brewster, Djimon Hounsou, Kurt Russell , Jason Statham Director: James Wan Producers: Neal H. Moritz, Vin Diesel, Michael Fottrell Writer: Chris Morgan Based on Characters by Gary Scott Thompson Rated: PG-13 Running Time: 2 Hrs. 17 Mins. Budget: $190.000.000 Box Office: $1,516,045,911
__label__7 Let me start off by saying I haven't read the book yet, so I have no idea how they compare. However, this was a pretty good movie overall. Many zombie movies are merely mindless gore and violence disguised within some fragile thing that doesn't even deserve to be called a plot. However, World War Z has a much better plot than most other zombie movies. One thing I noticed right away is that this movie actually made me jump in surprise several times. It's very suspenseful, and truly worthy of being called a "zombie horror movie," as opposed to the plethora of predictable, unsuspenseful zombie movies that have come out of Hollywood. Brad Pitt does a great job in his role, although I felt his character lacked definition in many ways. It would be nice if they had "fleshed out" the characters a bit more. Overall, this movie is definitely worth the watch if you have a couple hours to spare. Not the best movie ever made, but a pretty good one.
__label__7 "World War Z", despite involving zombies, plays more to the likes of a disaster film instead of a zombie film. It's more of like "2012" than "Resident Evil". We see shots of cities tumbling down to the rule of zombies and the world slowly turns into a zombie wasteland. The zombie attacks are large-scale, grand, and extremely exciting, save for the climax which ends up as a small-scale sequence, but is equally satisfying. The hero is Gerry Lane, a retired United Nations investigator who is recruited by what is left of the U.S. government to assist a young virologist Dr. Fassbach in investigating the virus. He reluctantly accepts this task in exchange for his family to be able to shelter in a U.S. Navy vessel. After Fassbach dies (in a hilarious way) he is determined to stop this outbreak. During their visit to Camp Humphreys in South Korea (where the word "zombie" was first used in reference to the outbreak) they learn that the zombies are attracted to sound. They also learn that Israel has established itself as a safe zone after it quarantined itself within a wall. Unaffected civilians, regardless of nationality, are allowed to enter. But due to the civilians singing loudly through a microphone, the zombies pile themselves up and manage to overcome the wall, and chaos ensues. This the largest action sequence in the entire movie. The scale is so massive and this scene is extremely exciting. Millions of uninfected humans being chased around by millions of zombies. The chaos is just indescribable. Add in the fact that the zombies are mindless and uncivilized and the chaos just multiplies itself. But this scene isn't the only one. There's another one earlier back in Philadelphia where Gerry witnesses the zombies firsthand for the very first time. All the action sequences are highly entertaining, massive, but surprisingly bloodless (which is peculiar for a film with zombies). They're massive, except the climax, where it's noticeably smaller set in a WHO facility, but the tension is equally high, and allows more shocks. Brad Pitt portrays the lead character, Gerry Lane. His character is devoid of personality here as most of the time, he's just involved in action. But Mr. Pitt delivers a performance that is quite pleasing. The rest of the cast gave good performances too and the acting shouldn't burden the whole movie experience. The script isn't that bad too. It diverges significantly from the original book and it is a bit uneven, but the lines make sense. It also works because it contains a real plot for the script to follow through. It has a sensible plot and the script acknowledges this. It's also worth noting that it has several humorous scenes too.It's far from perfect, it's heavy on action sequences, and it's uneven, but "World War Z" is an extremely fun ride for everyone to enjoy. I would also say that it's rather family-friendly as there are child characters that appear quite prominently. Another reason it's rather family-friendly is that it's bloodless. It has a real sensible plot (unlike most mindless movies containing zombies) and if you ignore the tiny faults and plot holes, "World War Z" will take you away on one of the most fun rides. Rating: 7/10Final Verdict: "World War Z" is uneven and far from perfect, but it's a fun and exhilarating ride that is more of a disaster film instead of the typical zombie film, and rather family- friendly.
__label__7 Finally, after years of facing difficulty with production and resources, World War Z has come our way, and it promises an epic and grandeur scale. The film definitely contains most of the elements fans have always desired in a zombie movie; it actually mixes horror, suspense, and action all in one movie. One act transpires underneath the roofs of a daunting apartment building when another act takes the audience across the world to Israel where the people left are forced to defend themselves against a monstrously colossal horde of zombies as they pile in. There are jump-scares. There are grisly and highly unfortunate deaths. Anyways, the film focuses on Brad Pitt's character (Gerry Lane) who's required to assist the UN with discovering a possible vaccine/cure to the horrifying virus that's spreading throughout the world and turning human beings into ghastly creatures. If he refuses to comply, they'll willingly kick his entire family off a tanker- one of the few safe locations left in the world. From there on, Gerry Lane is forced to transcend country after country in order to secure his family's safety and possibly save humanity. A hell of a lot is at stake, that's for sure. Now, I can definitely state that one of the best aspects of the film is its acting, especially Brad Pitt's, which, as usual, doesn't disappoint. One can clearly witness the fear and terror present in almost every character's eyes, as well as one specific character quite convincingly pulling off the feeling of sheer pain under horrendous circumstances. With that being said, the very beginning of the film starts off a little bizarrely as the pace seems to suffer. With the running time that the movie possesses, such a rich and complex story is compacted to fit its duration, which means right off the bat, we're met with the apocalypse and the zombie outbreak. We only receive a few minutes, if that, of the main family's daily lives until they're cast into the conflict almost instantly. As a result, conversations feel extremely and oddly brief and segments that could've been expanded on feel like they're set on "fast forward" in order to get to the "point." This means that there's much less space for character development and characterization in general, and zombie movies (or we can say Horror movies as a whole) definitely need to spend some time on their characters so that the audience is able to connect with them and feel for them as they progress on their journey. When they feel fear, we have to feel fear for them as well. Unfortunately, as this is largely a Hollywood blockbuster and not something like 28 Weeks Later, the film has to reach the action-packed bits as soon as possible. And this is when the film will cause a fair amount of decisiveness- the audience who read the book will approach the film differently than the ones who've seen the trailers and are just simply interested in the plot that's promised. I've read up on reviews, and most of the negative reviews originate from the individuals who expected an honest- shall I say- adaptation of the book (this is exactly the issue that faced The Great Gatsby or any other adaptation for that matter). I haven't read the book, which means I don't need to furiously rant about the film's disconnection from its novelistic counterpart. If you haven't read the book, you have no reason to worry about potential disappointment; that's practically reserved for the book's fans. If you're a book fan, on the other hand, you should be expecting the two's differentiation from one another. So, to put it most understandably, if you're entering this movie the way it was marketed, you'll experience a wild, roller-coaster ride that's fairly effective in its capability of featuring some dramatic moments of diplomatic negotiations and political discussions over the world's collapse and then placing you into intensely impossible situations only to be followed by an incredibly suspenseful, nerve-wracking sequence. It's highly entertaininghowever, it's the furthest from originality a film can get. I mean, it's yet another zombie movie, dealing with the entire world under a deadly zombie virus. You've basically seen everything in this movie already as 28 Days Later and 28 Weeks Later highlighted the serious effects of such an event already. In that case- during its first act- World War Z feels unbelievably similar to the two films mentioned above. Especially considering the decision to exclude the more political aspect of the novel and turning the adaptation into an action flick instead, there's not much here that'll bask in uniqueness, really. This all begs the question: how much longer will these numerous entertainment industries create zombie stories after zombie stories? It's time to move on to another fascinating idea. Leave the genre alone, but then again, as long as these studios continue to rake in millions, they'll continually produce the same product. In the end, World War Z is a fun, entertaining night out, but if you can't make it to the showing, don't feel too bad because you've most likely seen everything displayed in this film already.
__label__7 Unlike many of Hollywood's reimaginings of fairy tales, this film is actually decent. One can let children watch this in the same manner our grandparents were reading the original stories. It has morals, it is pretty, actors play well and, most of all, it is not condescendingly stupid. Instead, one can actually enjoy this on almost all levels.It was funny to see actors Ewan McGregor and Ewen Bremner play in a film together again (Rents and Spud), but they had no real interaction. Nicholas Hoult was OK as the hero of the story and Stanley Tucci, as usual, a great villain. The one that was rather disappointing was the princess, clearly a role that was not really thought out much more than "cute damsel in distress, ready for the rescue". Her father wasn't much either, but at least he had lines. Also, for a movie "made in USA" a great many English actors. Even the story was set in England, as we see in the end.Bottom line: while not the best movie ever, it was certainly an entertaining blockbuster that retained a lot of the feel and plot of the original fairy tale. It also manages to have an insane body count without actually showing any blood. The US rating system is idiotic for sure. Anyway, the movie was fun. I can recommend it for an easy watch.
__label__7 It's pretty much a guarantee that if you grew up with fairy tales, you would certainly know the story of Jack and The Beanstalk. I know I have; when I was a kid, this story was everywhere. I saw it played out by Mickey Mouse in the "Fun and Fancy Free," by Snoopy in "The Charlie Brown and Snoopy Show," and by Bugs Bunny in "Jack Wabbit and The Beanstalk." The tale is a timeless child's fantasy story, and for that alone, this movie mostly succeeds.After the opening credits, the film opens with an introduction of our two main characters: Jack (played by Nicholas Hoult, fresh off his role in last month's "Warm Bodies") and princess Isabelle (played by Elanor Tomlinson). Just like in the original fairy tale, Jack is a poor farm hand who is tricked into trading valuable livestock (in this movie it's a horse rather than a cow) for supposed "magic beans." Princess Isabelle, however is pretty much the textbook definition of a Disney princess. Her mother is dead, her father is an over-protective king who wants her to marry someone she doesn't like, she's tired of her boring life in the palace and dreams of adventure. When I first came across this character, I immediately planned on chastising her as extremely clichéd in this review. However, once I began watching this in the context of a kids movie, I found this to be much more tolerable. Though in a 2013-released film, it still feels kind of dated.Those expecting another "Hansel and Gretel: Witch Hunters" will be disappointed. This movie is pretty family-friendly overall and has a light hearted attitude throughout. Despite this film's hefty body count, the characters consistently joke around and get themselves into shenanigans. It could very well be irritating to those expecting a more mature fantasy based on the rating and advertising, as it does admittedly feel too silly at times. However, as a family film, the combination of violence and silliness makes it somewhat a fusion of the family films of the 80's and 90's respectively.The rest of the characters are decently developed, including the sinister Lord Roderick (played by Stanley Tucci) and the noble knight Elmont (played by Ewan McGreggor). No character was given that much development, which I actually didn't really mind. I knew enough about each character, and in a fast-paced fairy tale like this, keeping the plot moving and interesting were the most important aspects.The giants were pretty interesting too. In a way, they reminded me of the trolls in last year's "The Hobbit: an Unexpected Journey," as they are excessively gross, uncivilized and high-tempered. I'm certain that kids will get a laugh out of their flatulent, booger-eating ways. I was initially concerned that this film would just portray them as unstoppable villains with no personality. Instead, the film fleshes them out a bit and gives them a motive for their actions. I certainly wouldn't mind a prequel film giving more meat to their hatred for mankind.The cast gives their all, especially Nicholas Hoult. Here he brings to Jack the same charm and timidity he gave to R in "Warm Bodies." I feel that he he has the capability and likability to carry a movie as the lead role, and I look forward to his future endeavors next year."Jack The Giant Slayer" will reasonably divide critics and audiences, but if I had kids, I would have no problem taking them to see this. It's a fun little adventure that kids and open-minded adults will get a kick out of.
__label__7 Or – A new take on Jack and the beanstalk. "Jack the giant slayer" takes a classic tale and breaths new life into it. So many try and fail at this, but this flick moderately succeeds. Despite a troubled production.Film sees Jack. A young farmers son, sell his horse for some magic beans, which end up growing into a massive beanstalk. This beanstalk leads too a legendary land in the clouds, where the promised giants off the title roam. Sounds familiar? That's because it is. But its been delved into further, with more characters, some extra imagination, and many action set pieces thrown in, to make it a damn good feature length family movie.Its not perfect. For everyone loving the fact its action packed, there will be those who find it seriously over heavy on the cartoony CGI. There are some cheesy moments, and some bad gags. But these are not overwhelming, in a film that is over all good fun.
__label__7 Frankly I was prepared to watch a huge waste of money on crappy visual effects and famous actors. It turned out to be pleasant time with my brother. Jack and the Beanstalk is a well-known international fable with not so well story compared to other myths and fables, but the writer did a great job adapting the scripts. Visual effects are good-not bad- and nothing is overrated. Watching Jack the giant slayer is a nice sibling time. Highly recommended. Somehow I'm not looking forward to watch a sequel of the story. Especially not with giants walking around London. it's like watching Thor: the dark world (2013) all over again.
__label__7 JACK the GIANT SLAYER is a nice flight of the imagination, exercise in fairly mindless (though not stupid)entertainment. The film has a Disney-like flavor, and though it makes only a half-hearted attempt to convey the medieval setting, the cinematography is very fine. Good performances by Hoult, Tomlinson, and McGregor.The story may be missing a piece or two, and the modern day ending is a bit tacked-on. There's an interesting mythos here, but its underdevelopment is a little dissatisfying. Nevertheless, it's clear from the beginning that this is not a film to take too seriously: Simply fun to watch for children of all ages.
__label__7 The common view amongst "professional" reviews is that the movie is average. scoring below 50% from Rotten Tomatoes, and MetaCritic, and notably a 2 out of 4 stars from Roger Ebert. The average user ranking on MC puts it at 9 out of 10.Most reviews range anywhere from 8 out of 10, to as low as 2 or 3 out of 10.If there's one thing critics can agree on, its that the movie is clichéd, borrowing elements from plenty of epics based in the Middle East and fantasy alike, and that it's loads of fun.The one thing no one can agree on is whether that's good or bad.It should be pointed out that this film is produced by the same company/studio that brought us 'Pirates of the Caribbean', and it certainly shows.With that said, I'll lead into my thoughts on the film. The first "Pirates" scored on average a 7.8 - 6.4 of 10, while the sequels averaged anywhere from 4.5 to 5.3. I'd say this movie is better than the sequels while not as good as the first. So, I'd give it roughly a 7 out of 10.The story is fun, for what it is. Which is a rough retelling of the video game "Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time", while incorporating elements of the following two sequels, as well as incorporating stylistic elements from the following game and the first three of the original trilogy. Thats right! Based loosely on one game, borrowing elements from SIX more. The movie is stretched too thin, and it shows.The movie feels like your prototypical "sword and sandal" action flick, borrowing heavily from films like "The Thief of Baghdad", and stories found in "1001 Nights". So think 'Arabian Nights', Ali Baba and the 40 Thieves, Aladdin, all mixed with some Steve Reeves 'Hercules' and Robert E. Howard 'Conan' flash.Is it as cheesy as that sounds? YES! Is it as awesome as that sounds? YES!But it's still well edited, well acted, well scored (Harry Gregson-Williams never fails), and overall well done enough to merit an enjoyable experience.The ONLY complaints I can think of are few, but here they are: A bit too much CGI, not on the stunts (not much CGI there surprisingly) but on things like demonic-esque snakes (you'll see). Too much random slow-motion. The sexual-tension seemed too forced (too many of those really slow "they're about to kiss but don't" moments). And whereas yes, the ending is supposed to have a "Deus-Ex-Machina" feel to it, in the game it is much more thorough and more explained, in the movie you're just expected to roll with it.Other than that. A fun night at the movies! Grab your over-priced candy, soda, and popcorn (or do like me and sneak snacks in) and have fun with friends, family and loved ones, recapturing the fun escapism of your childhood with an epic but cliché action movie.Hope you enjoyed my review... And I hope you enjoy the movie too!
__label__7 Prince of Persia is the BEST PLATFORM GAME on computer I ever played as a child. It's not that industrial standard movies can create new ideas, they have to find a source to make an adaptation, but Sands of Time doesn't stand enough loyal to its title. What not staying loyal to Prince of Persia means, there is not any visually admirable combat with the film at all. When it's been first released, AUTUMN 1989, in Apple II; there were only a palace, a peasant child, a princess under the Caliph's servitude and hundreds of guardians defending the palace. Our peasant child as a spy was there to rescue the princess to bring her back to father the Persian Emperor. Looking at the continuation of the game series, the story is taken back in time about 15 centuries back to Persian realm before the birth of Christ. When I played the 2003 Sands of Time game on X-Box, the combat sense of the game had been gone. It was rather boring and bothersome since our peasant has become a prince, with not much to do other than jumping back and forth over the house roofs like Spider-Man.What's good with the movie better than its 2003 version of video game is we have more challenges than the game here. It's widely enriched with industrial standards. Classic cat and mouse type tags, rebel and noble girl falling in love with the boy, people from evil side turning to good side, suspicious characters seeking tricky and manipulative ways of possessing more power and authority, good side falls into an adventure/journey as a team, proves the importance of teamwork and beats the odds: The very-well known SWASHBUCKLER clichés since 1950s' Erol Flynn flicks, 1960s' Akira Kurosawa Seven Samurai, 1980s' Conan the Barbarian with Arnie, Indiana Jones with Harrie, 1990s' The Mummy, and from recent years the LOTR and the Pirates of the Caribbean. Prince of Persia has a lot to offer to the video game fans, but not much to offer for movie fans at all.With great aspects from locations and change on weather conditions especially on desert, this movie is considerably interesting, even though most of them are CGI; animals from desert, the OSTRICHS, the COBRA SNAKES and ARMORED HORSES even though it's not appropriate with its history.Sands of Time as a production had great potential of usage in props, but either the producers never made a deep research or may be they just couldn't provide them. In the computer game, the props were the heart of the franchise. FLYING CARPET, DOUBLE-SIDED ALTER-EGO CREATOR MIRROR, POTHOLE AMBUSHES, BARRED DOORS, ROTTEN PUNK FLOORS, ELIXIRS...(for the full list props from the game, please go to the Message Board to find my message, in the title page). Here in the film, a large barred door been used, but it was a pre-built one with very well-known studio usage from 1980s' RED SONJA especially. Other cons were the SACRED DAGGER which given its name to the title of the movie, the POISONED KING DALMATIC. Other than those the costumes of the actors were only average. But the Princess needed a better costume other than a gown.I found the editing job in the introduction scenes and the first half very pathetic. It became a matter of story design afterwards. There are bunches of continuation mistakes, costume changes without the location changes and errors in every other scene while telling the drama sequences. I'm crazy for sword combats in action movies, but Sands of Time displayed one of the worst sword combats I've ever seen, Jake needed to practise more on handling swords. In this case, even the Pirates of the Caribbean was so-so. If it's the matter the best sword combat was used in Star Wars 30 years ago. As a reminder, the first 3 games until 1999, Prince of Persia was full of excitement with its excellent sword combat simulations. Instead of sword combat, we witness the agility skills of our Prince, making the guardians run after him, jumping back and forth over the house roofs. If you're using agility skills to display in such a Swashbuckler; then what's Spider-Man, X-Men, BatMan for? For the cuts and takes from the action scenes, which is hard to say "combat", director Mike Newell has preferred mostly C.U. shots, that's dated back to John Woo, which is underclass nowadays. So as an action genre, Sands of Time fails almost every aspect. But there is one thing, I most fond of is the Hassansin soldiers and their combat weapons, and the successful sound effects comes with them.The story design is pathetic, but we feel a nice development work on the story-telling. There is not many heritages from Persian Mythology, so it's fine and dandy to draw the long bow, but why is it always TIME-TRAVEL, isn't there anything else for the Mythological Gods to represent their power on Earth? After the first half, when the exact idea of who is on evil side, who is on good side is established, and when it's their time to challenge each other; it becomes breath-taking to watch and admire the Sands of Time.Story: 3/10 , Story Development: 9/10, Production Design: 2/10, Sounds: 7/10, Effects: 7/10, Acting: 5/10, Script: 3/10, Visuals: 7/10, Action: 5/10, Adventure: 7/10, Fantasy and Creativity: 4/10. Overall my mark is 6.5/10. Time is never wasted if it's for fun while watching Sands of Time
__label__7 While watching this movie, I was reminded of a couple of films and TV shows from my youth, first was any of the original Godzilla films, the second, a TV show Ultra Man. The FX were way better here, but, it just made me think of them. I found the film entertaining, no Oscar winner, but, it was good. Some parts kept you on the edge of your seat, of course, rooting for the good guys.I also had to think that mankind would have or could have thought of a better defense/offense weapon than giant robots. To bring a fight into the city would have cost trillions of dollars, perhaps Quadrillions of dollars. Okay, I'm reading way to much into it. Watch the movie, you will enjoy it.
__label__7 To all the reviewers who gave this movie low ratings, I can only say this; What did you expect to see? Did you watch this expecting to see something deep and meaningful? The trailers and posters make it perfectly clear what kind of movie this is going to be. Heavy CGI, regular Hollywood 'save the planet' storyline re-run. Young eye candy super hot actors. You know the score. If you want to see something clever, this is not it and it was never going to be.Question is, does it do the job it sets out to do? I think it does rather well, yeah OK, it's cheesy as hell and you know how it's going to end before it starts, ( the world will be saved right? ) considering it's being told in retrospect the clue to the inevitable ending is there in the first 10 seconds of the movie.I liked the mind meld idea of the 2 pilots, and I thought they covered most bases explaining the technology behind the enormous robots (Jaegers) pretty well. It does have a few technical plot holes here and there, but the film does have a 'let's just get on with it' kind of feel. The alien creatures (Kaiju) are great and the robot v monster battles are superb. Towards the end the pace picks right up and the story starts to fall apart a bit, but by that point who cares? In general Pacific Rim is a fast paced, slick looking piece of techno-action that most Sci-Fi fans will enjoy. It's big, loud, dumb and very pretty, largely due to Guillermo Del Toro being at the helm.It's Sunday afternoon on the sofa material I think. I know these kind of films are 'designed' for the big screen, but honestly I prefer them at home most of the time. Unless of course, you like feeling as though you are sitting the middle of a continuous explosion for and hour and half.
__label__7 Unlike some, I had no problem with the high concept of the piece: Transformers vs Godzilla. It had a lot of potential. And when the movie concentrates on what we are all here to see (giant creatures and robots beating on each others with oil tankers and smashing through skyscrapers) it is very successful. But when things get quiet... less so. Too much time spent on "Top Gun" like fighter pilot shenanigans. Not enough nuance in the characterizations. An ultra linear plot with few attempts to confound expectations. The acting isn't bad - and isn't required to be great in this sort of film - but it is nothing special either. Sort of universally "meh". Good for a Blu Ray rental.
__label__7 This film starts of with a monologue that explains in twenty seconds how big monsters start appearing from the sea and destroying everything. The only defence against them is to kick their heads in with massive robots. Cool! Starting so quickly out the blocks I expected this to be a fast paced action movie.It really isn't. About every film element ever used, runs its course before the inevitable big battle. You get a fall from grace, a rivalry, a training period, a love story, forgiveness, reconciliation, etc. etc.The battle sequences are epic, the monsters and robots are amazing, Kids especially will love them, and the action goes on and on.The dialogue is cheesier and hammier than a 60 foot pizza monsters, and coupled with the extended scope of this film can make watching it gruelling if you are not instantly gripped.This will keep any kids gripped for hours (nearly three of them) but if sci-fi isn't your thing get comfy and bring a pillow.
__label__7 Guillermo Del Toro's epic homage to the Japanese 'Kaiĵu' movies, produced on a bigger budget than all such giant monster movies of the last fifty years combined. Del Toro obviously has a great love and respect for the genre, resulting in a very catchy action flick, undoubtedly the best American counterpart to its Japanese predecessors. One might almost say Hollywood has redeemed itself for the 1998 version of Godzilla, but such a statement had better be held back for another year, until the next American reboot of Godzilla hits theatres in 2014. In the meantime, Pacific Rim works well as an appetizer to the big G's resurrection. An extra-dimensional rift opens on the bottom of the Pacific and huge beasts come pouring out, wreaking havoc on mankind as they lay waste to cities and obliterate our armed forces. Humanity quickly sets aside its internal differences and joins forces in creating big robots to fight the creatures on their own terms. Piloted by a pair of human Avatars, these so-called 'Jaëgers' effectively combat the beasts, but the life of a Jaëger pilot as Del Toro reveals is filled with personal loss. When the monsters emerge ever more rapidly from the Breach, as it is named, Jaëger command develops an intricate and dangerous plan to halt the Kaiĵu threat once and for all. Del Toro briefly explores the history of the first Kaiĵu assaults and the development of their robotic antagonists and afterwards spends more time getting us invested in the human characters than is usual for this type of film. It does make the movie feel like its dragging its feet for a while, until he unleashes the action the audience craves with a vengeance, resulting in over an hour of nigh endless monster bashing. Unfortunately he cannot help but inserting a few characters that are supposed to deliver some much needed comic relief to make sure we don't take it all too seriously, but sadly these characters – stereotypical geeky scientists as ever we've seen them – are so mind-boggingly annoying (Charlie Day particularly) they make you wish for a Kaiĵu to step on them to end their endless whining. Del Toro's talents are better suited in delving deeper into a world where Kaiĵus are not only a threat to world peace but also big business: toy companies produce action figures of them, creepy cults worship them and in Hong Kong, a 'Bone Town' is established, a black market for Kaiĵu products for shady purposes, similar to the disgusting existing South-East Asian trade in animal parts. Run by Ron Perlman (always a joy when paired with Del Toro), some of the funniest, wittiest and anatomically most unsettling scenes take place here. Though the dealings and the history of the Jaëgers are fleshed out to the fullest, their enormous alien adversaries, ever the most important ingredient in a Kaiĵu film, do remain somewhat underexposed by comparison. Unfortunately their motivations – they're really foot soldiers out to cause as much damage to mankind as possible, in order to pave the way for an invasion from their (smaller) intelligent overlords – remind us of the recent Shyamalan flop After Earth, a movie we'd rather forget entirely. Usually, Kaiĵu are more antiheroes than full-out villains, but Del Toro opts to keep them a simple threat to be wiped out instead of imbuing them with a more sympathetic character like their forebears Gojira, Gorgo and Rodan, who were always the victim of human (nuclear) folly, transforming them into avenging gods to remind us of our place in the world. The movie is dedicated to Ray Harryhausen and Ishiro Honda, two people who only too well understood the need to layer their creatures and make them charm you so you feel more for them, but in this instance, Del Toro decided not to go with such wisdom. As a result, Pacific Rim at best is a highly likable action flick, but not necessarily an apt lesson for western audiences into the true nature of the Kaiĵu genre. Then again, there's only so much you can do with the notion of giant robots bashing giant monsters. Let's say Guillermo gets as much out of that premise as we could hope for.
__label__7 A movie that could have been great if not for the obvious flaws that drag it down. Let me break it down by sections:Story, Screenplay & Dialogues: A very promising premise that promises much more than if actually offers on screen. A razor straight story line that does not deviate from the obvious and every scene follows a predictable path. Offers no surprises, thrills, twists or turns. A scrappy screenplay only serves to drag the pace, especially in action sequences...where you are itching for the mega fights only to be let down. The director tries Chris Nolan / Inception'esque trip down memory lanes, only to falter without generating any emotion from the audience. Absolutely horrendous dialogue. Completely uninspiring. Scenes where a single look should have conveyed the emotion powerfully has been diluted with meaningless words. More worse as the viewer can even predict what is going to be said!Action & Animation: Very good, but could have been much much better. More slo-mo sequences wherein you can have a classic view of the behemoths colliding are missing trying to generate pace, but does not reach its mark. Most sequences happen in night/underwater adding to a jumbled rumble feel.Characters: Tame and insipid. lack of character development leaves the viewers emotionally detached and not able to 'connect' with any of the characters. Notable exceptions are Elba and Pellman. Both the lead characters are eminently forgettable and do not make a impact. Director should have watched Independence day or MiB to understand the importance of character development. A leaf out of Real Steel would have lifted this to greatness.Overall: Still a good movie. Watchable once with minimal repeat value. The Jaegers are awesome and just for that I rate this 7/10.
__label__7 Entertainment is not just a story. It is not just drama or social commentary. It is not something that can be measured by terms like "latest and greatest" or "cutting edge". This movie is not Man of Steel or Star Trek into Darkness where there is a child-like obsession with being "taken seriously" by adding grotesque violence or depressing overtones. This is not Transformers 3 or the Hobbit where special effects and action scenes are a cluttered mess of ADD rave parties that try to up the excitement with jumpy editing. THIS IS A SINCERE MOVIE.Sure it has lack luster actors, but they are mixed with some fine ones as well. Yes this has giant robots and that is the main reason to see the film, but they are not just jingling keys in front of us. These action scenes have atmosphere. The fights are exciting because of anticipation and build up. This movie (while very flawed) should be a model example of popcorn entertainment. I came in, saw some good fights, and got a happy ending without bullshit. This was the kind of fun I remember as a kid.This is a movie (strangely enough like John Carter) that should just be enjoy. They may not have had the best plots or most original stories, but they had substance that can honestly be felt. Genuine love for what they are doing in the film and real effort in making us as the audience part of that fun. They can be dumb or dull, but it feels more like a circumstance of a rushed schedule or odd-ball casting. It feels like Hollywood at its best since they just want us to have a good time.I not only hope for a sequel, I hope for loving imitators who don't aspire to pretentious greatness (Rise of the Guardians), don't have something to immaturely prove (Man of Steel), and actually have their own story to tell even if its derivative (Star Trek into Darkness is not only a Rip-off of Wrath of con, but it is practically a sequel that is DEPENDANT on it).This is not the degradation of film, this is the much needed laxative in a world of fast edited adaptations, sequels, and reboots with emo endings.
__label__7 I have to say I enjoyed watching Transformers 3. If you take it for what it is, a Michael Bay movie with awesome, epic visuals, an over-the- top weak plot, not very deep characters, and classic 'Bay' humor, then it's great. Not as good as the first, but easily better than the 2nd one. First off, the visual effects are amazing. One of the best, if not the best, that I've seen, both in details on the transformers, in action/fighting sequences, and in more general landscape shots - the views of Chicago when it was being attacked by decepticons were great. I watched it in 3D in the theater, and it was arguably the best 3D effects I've seen, and best use of 3D cameras, and that is including Avatar which i also saw in 3D. This is what Michael Bay is really good at, and this movie shows he is arguably the expert in visual effects and composition.visual effects and presentation - 10/10The plot isn't great. When it starts out, it seems like it might develop nicely into a moderately complex story rooted in some historical events that happened very differently than how we thought (kind of like the hoover dam part in the first transformers), but in the end not much is made of that and the plot is relatively direct and over-the-top. However, it does have a few good moments that offer a bit more complexity or emotion, and anyways I didn't watch the movie hoping for a subtle, complex, and nuanced plot.Plot - 6/10The characters and acting aren't Oscar-worthy either, to say the least. Rosie Huntington-Whitely is not a great actress, in fact she isn't really an actress, and it shows, but, to be honest, I have seen worse performances. Shia Labeouf is decent in his role as usual. and again there are some new characters, including some for Michael Bay- esque comic relief (which in my opinion is actually funnier than much of the humor in revenge of the fallen, which felt a little too forced to me).Characters/acting - 6/10Fun - 8/10If you're expecting a layered, nuanced movie with deep characterization and a complex and well-written plot, well, then, don't watch this. If, though, you want a fun blockbuster with truly amazing visual effects, a decent (but forgettable) storyline and characterization, and an easy to follow dynamic, well you'll probably like Transformers 3.
__label__7 As a huge fan of the Transformers animated series, I like the first Transformers film. The visuals were spectacular and so were the fighting scenes When I saw Transformers 2, which is a HUGE mess of a film, I was really angry. I vowed never to see a Transformers film ever again. But when the trailer of Transformers 3 came out, I actually got a little interested. I mean the special effects were pretty much great as usual. But this time, it seemed they took off the annoying little robots and that annoying mother and replaced them with good old fashioned action.When I went to an advanced screening yesterday, I still came in with relatively low expectations. I have to say, that Transformers 3 is an overall improvement from its predecessor, Transformers 2. The film was pretty much at level with the first film, though. The action scenes were highly extravagant and at times, pretty epic. The movie had a lot less lame scenes, which is always a plus. The acting was okay. Megan Fox's replacement, Rosie Huntington-Whiteley was okay, but she's certainly not a good actress, but a mediocre one, actually I liked her more than Megan Fox. I liked how the movie used the Apollo landing as a part of its story, like in Forrest Gump. However there were so many characters that were extremely thinly written. John Turturro's character was definitely not needed and some of the dialogue was incoherent and very messy, at times. The movie is also way too long, at 157 minutes, wow. I thought the last scene with Megatron was completely rushed and so was the ending. Although the last hour of the film is pretty epic at times, so I was fulfilled with the visual effects.Overall I rate Transformers 3, an 7/10. Don't go in expecting a Best Picture winner/nominee. With the right amount of expectations, you will probably be fulfilled. A definite improvement over Revenge of the Fallen, which doesn't say much. But at the end, the great special effects and extremely extravagant action scenes more than make up its flaws. I'd recommend this film if you like the franchise.
__label__7 The Transformers series recovers slightly after an horrendous second instalment with a decent final act, providing of course that it is the final act.The story (yep, unlike No.2 this one has a story) is that the autobots sent a ship out into the galaxy nearing the end of the Cybertronian War which crash landed on the Earth's moon. The Yanks found out about this, which is why they were so eager to land there in the late sixties, their real mission being to investigate this alien vessel. Turns out have the dormant former autobot leader Sentinel Prime (voiced by Leonard Nimoy, the voice of Galvatron in the original animated film) on board, and he has a cargo that could hand the Decepticons final victory in the Cybertronian war and grant them dominion throughout the universe.So the stakes are huge, so is the budget. So are the nods to older characters. Uber badass Shockwave finally makes an appearance, the autobots treating him with suitable fear and trembling. The rebel autobot Wreckers make an appearance, though as particularly vulgar characters. The autobots have the odds stacked against them, beaten and exiled, and yet triumph in the end after much sacrifice.I won't say too much about the plot. Though there aren't many surprises, you're better off seeing them in the film than reading them in this review.THis is easily the best characterisation of Optimus Prime, and also Megatron in the film series. Sentinel is an excellent addition, and I must admit to chuckling at the various Spock references throughout the film.So with the human actors. LeBeouf, who I quite liked in the first and found tolerable in the second, is here just annoying. We swap the brunette Barbie Doll Megan Fox, for an actual Barbie Doll in Rosie Huntington Whitely. Though to compensate not being able to see Megan draped over a motor bike in short shorts, we are shown a close up from behind of Rosie walking up a flight of stairs in her underwear. As a matter of fact, that is her introductory scene which tells you all you need to know about her character. Frances McDormand and John Malkovich are both welcome additions and their characters both appear to have walked in off the same film John Turtorro's had in the first movie. Patrick Dempsey is perfect in his role as an oily business man conductor of mass enmity.Spike's parents were so funny in the first film, and so vulgar in the second, hear they have improved to being merely banal.Some of the set pieces are astonishing, the highlight being some humans trapped in a sky scraper leaning on another sky scraper, trying desperately to make their way across the fallen building into the still intact one as Shockwave tears the building apart, but the whole battle sequence in Chicago is breathtaking. The ending is suitably dramatic and feels final.What can I say? Loved the transformer characterisations in this one. Had a couple of decent human characters added and actually had a story, even if it was pretty thin. Better than the second, not as good as the first. Loved it!
__label__7 Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull (2008) isn't a bad film -- there are a few dazzling sequences, and a couple of good performances -- but the unprecedented blend of comedy and action that made the movies so much more fun than any other adventure series is mostly gone. It is one of my personal favorite adventure movies even tough is a bad sequel but it is still good in my opinion. Yes I like this film it isn't greatest film of all time, but for 2008 film? Yes I will take it. Yes the film has more mistakes and flaws but what ever. Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull will may not be the greatest film of all time, or bad ass like Riders and The Last Crusade but it is still a good film, it is the weakest entry but still a worthy sequel. I love all the tree films and I like this one a lot. STEVEN SPIELBERG and GEORGE LUCAS bring you the greatest adventurer of all time in "a nonstop thrill ride" (Richard Corliss, TIME) that's packed with "sensational, awe-inspiring spectacles" (Roger Ebert, CHICAGO SUN-TIMES). Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull finds Indy (Harrison Ford) trying to outrace a brilliant and beautiful agent (Cate Blanchett) for the mystical, all-powerful crystal skull of Akator. Teaming up with a rebellious young biker (Shia LaBeouf) and his spirited original love Marion (Karen Allen), Indy takes you on an action-packed adventure in the exciting tradition of the classic Indiana Jones movies!In regards to the "nuking the fridge" scene, the thing about Indiana Jones is that there are not some good things in all of the previous three Indy films, especially Temple of Doom, so it's not fair to criticize Crystal Skull for having aliens or the fridge nuke scene without also acknowledging all the dumb stuff in the original trilogy, such as Indy either flying off a cliff on a tank and walking away from it without a scratch, or dropping out of a plane on a rubber raft and sliding down a mountain slope without sustaining any whiplash. Obviously, Spielberg and Lucas were inspired by the James Bond books by Ian Fleming, where the main character always escapes near-death situations.As far the "aliens don't belong in an Indiana Jones movie" argument goes, Indiana Jones has always been about fantasy and science fiction. I mean, Indy has dealt with ghosts that come out of an ark and spontaneously melt people's faces, voodoo dolls, beating hearts being ripped out of chests through use of magic, and a seemingly immortal knight from the 12th century guarding the Holy Grail, but it's not OK to have aliens?Also, everyone seems to forget what the Indiana Jones franchise was originally about in the first place; it was created as a tribute to old b-movies and adventure serials. This is defiantly my least favorite out of all of the Indy films but its still a lot of fun even though the cgi was kind of bad and although I was kind of interested in the whole alien I thought the ending was kind a stupid when they show the flying saucer but overall I really like it.Famed archaeologist/adventurer Dr. Henry "Indiana" Jones is called back into action when he becomes entangled in a Soviet plot to uncover the secret behind mysterious artifacts known as the Crystal Skulls.Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull is a 2008 American science fiction adventure film. The rating I give to this film is 7.5/10. Anything under 7 would be ridiculous, as anyone claiming this isn't at least a GOOD action film claiming this isn't at least a GOOD action film (it is sure as hell better than all the comic movies that get high scores) needs their head examined. 7.5/10 Grade: B+
__label__7 Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, the 19 year long awaited sequel, the big summer blockbuster is finally here! I was lucky enough to see the premiere tonite, my hopes were up, the audience was pumped, everyone was just excited, why wouldn't you be? This was the Indiana Jones to blow the trilogy out of the water. Unfortunately, I'm feeling a little empty, I am such a huge fan of the trilogy, movies that hold memories for me as well as excitement still to this day when I watch the Indiana Jones movies. Indiana is back, this film had a little bit of the old style that I was looking forward too, however, I feel like we were lied too. The makers of the film told us there would be no CGI unless it was needed like the old films, not only was there a lot of CGI, the older films had special effects, but they were real, this was a little too cartoonish at times. Not only that, but I felt like the 50's stereotype was being too rubbed in our faces: the jocks vs. greasers, the cold war fear, nuclear bomb testings, the Russians, and the aliens. I'm not going to lie, while the movie is flawed; this is still a fun action packed adventure film that is worth the full price ticket. I think the story was just more of a tribute rather than an actual movie on it's own.Indiana Jones is back, when the Russians have kidnapped him, Irina Spalko wants him to take her to find a crystal skull that is supposedly the skull of an alien. When they find it, the skull is to be returned to it's kingdom and supposedly they will hold all the power to the kingdom. Indiana manages to escape, meeting a young boy, Mutt, who tells him about Professor Oxley, who Indiana went to school with and how Mutt has heard about the skull and wants Indiana to find it with him. Together they set out to find it with the Russians on their tail, to meet with a familiar face, Marion(Raiders of the Lost Ark, you remember?), to find out another little secret about Mutt and Indiana.Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, I do have positives about the film. We have our fun adventure film, rooting for the good guys, laughs, and excitement. Harrison Ford still has Indiana in his blood, no one could ever take his place, Shia made himself a worthy co-star and their chemistry worked very well. Marion was a nice touch, bringing back something to the fans of the trilogy. The only problem I have with this being more of a tribute is that if you watch the trilogy, while they are connected movies, if you were to watch The Temple of Doom first before Raiders, you'd get the movie without having to see the first one. Since this is a very long awaited sequel, I can see why they would want to please the fans, but there is a new generation who unfortunately might have not seen Raiders or The Last Crusade to understand this sequel on certain characters and lines. Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull is definitely worth your time, but as a fan, I can't help but feel that the ending made me question what the sequel's true motives were: money or for the fans? Judge for yourself.7/10
__label__7 Reading all the comments here, it looks like this is one of the worst films ever made, and it's absolute rubbish, Shia's character is Jar Jar Binks, etc.But it's earning a ton of money, and the rankings (7.6) are high, so what does that tell you? That compared to the haters, MOST people came to his movie expecting a fun adventure movie and got it.Look, the Indiana Jones movies aren't flawless. Even in the previous movies, you had to suspend belief (people melting? someone surviving a fall from a plane just on a craft? a Knight living more than 1,000 years?) and just enjoy the action scenes - and you have them here! Mutt swinging on the vines is real corny but the car chase through the jungle, complete with sword fight, fisticuffs, giant ants, etc. - they are what you can expect from an Indiana Jones movie. And Cate Blanchett is a SUPER villain, Harrison somehow makes it all believable for him to still be an action star at 60 plus, and it's great to see Marion Ravenwood again.STAR WARS I was a major major disappointment, but this one is NOT. We have wanted to see Harrison Ford suit up as Indy again, and here he has a good cast with him, and yet we bash the movie because it isn't RAIDERS? Nothing can be as much fun as the first Indy Jones movie. But this one is still MUCH MUCH better than any adventure movie out there for the past several years.Just watch it with an open mind. Don't expect miracles, but fun entertainment for 2 hours and you will get it.
__label__7 After a long nineteen year wait, Indiana Jones is back on the big screen hamming it up and continuing his search for rare and wild artifacts that could seriously take someone's life away. This film has Jones in the late 1950s fighting against the Soviets in order to obtain a crystal skull found in Peru which they believe will give them absolute knowledge over all other countries. Without telling the spoilers, it is important to state right here and now that this is definitely the weakest written of the four films. It simply doesn't give the magic and suspense that Raiders was able to throughout the entire running time. Of course the acting is good with Harrison Ford looking as good as ever and Karen Allen and Shia Labeouf supporting him well. The directing by Steven Spielberg is solid as we get some nice chase scenes and the pace is just fine. Still, it's that script that is giving me winces of pain as I watch this film. Of course, you shouldn't go into this thinking it was going to be as good or better than Raiders or the Last Crusade. I didn't expect too much and that is exactly what I got; not too much but enough to recommend for all fans of the original three to see. Are the first three the best? Of course. Should they have made this fourth one? Probably not. Still, if you are a fan, it doesn't hurt too much to see Indy crack the whip one more time.
__label__7 I believe the reason a few people are saying this film is really bad is because allot of people want that "film Magic" of the first film in this series, "Raiders of the Lost Ark". What people fail to realize is that at the time, that film was one of a kind for the time, a new roller coaster ride for many of us when we were younger.No film will ever quite match it, including any film with the main character of "Indiana Jones".. Having said that, this film here is fun enough on it's own merits. Of course, it is not a great film, but it is entertaining..My criticisms;I could of done without what I consider to be "Alien Propaganda" that seems to plaugue allot of Spielbergs directed films.The new characters could of been fleshed out more.Spielberg should of kept his word, and used allot less CGI, he didn't. In fact, everything he has represented about this film before it's release has frankly been flat out FALSE!! The story could of been better, but it is not bad.My likes; Harrison Ford still has it, He looks Great, and got back into the character of Indiana Jones quite well.The pacing was good and about the same as Raiders in that regard.Nice to see Karen Allen again on the screen. I always liked her as an actress.final verdict.Worth a viewing, but DO NOT EXPECT the same magic that Raiders had, or you will end up like many here, HATING IT!!
__label__7 In the summer of 1981, best friends Steven Spielberg and George Lucas (the directors of Jaws and Star Wars, respectively) made a tribute based on the classic cliffhanger serials of the 1930s with a Bond-like feel. That "tribute" was Raiders of the Lost Ark, and it was an action adventure film that surpassed all expectations, becoming the box office champion of 1981 and nominated for many awards, including BEST Picture (a rarity for action films), solidified the career of the already-famous Harrison Ford and put Karen Allen on the map. Set in 1936, with World War II waiting just below the surface, archaeology professor and adventurer Indiana Jones is hired by the US government to find and retrieve the Lost Ark of the Covenant while facing fierce competition from the Nazis, who are aided by a rival archaeologist.Two sequels would follow, 1984's Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom (actually a prequel, as it takes place in 1935) and 1989's Last Crusade (set in 1938). Both sequels were great box-office draws, but both received a comparatively less favourable critical reception, especially Temple of Doom, which stirred up a lot of outrage for its portrayal of an Indian Cult. All three movies took place in the immediate pre-World War II era, before the war machine erupted in autumn 1939.Now, It is 1957, and things have surely changed. It has been 19 years since the end of the Last Crusade (which also coincide with the gap between the films' release dates); World War II ended with the defeat of Dr. Jones's traditional enemy, the Nazis (from Raiders and Crusade); close friend Marcus Brody (Elliot McDermott) and father Henry Jones Sr. (Sean Connery) have recently passed away; the new international order is split between the Communist world v.s the Capitalist world (with everything in between) and Indy is trailed by the FBI (and also by the KGB) due to Mac's, his longtime partner, history as a double-agent and Jones's recent forced cooperation with the Soviets to find a warehouse that includes captured artifacts (which coincidentally includes the Ark). While trying to leave the country temporarily to escape the FBI, he encounters a young man named Mutt Williams, a rebellious drop-out in the likes of James Dean and Marlon Brando. He persuades Jones to come with him and help rescue his mother, who turns out to be Indy's lingering flame Marion Ravenwood (Karen Allen) and Professor Oxley (Hurt), both held captive by the same Soviets Indy has encountered early on. Indy reluctantly agrees, and decides to help him battle the Soviets in a race reminiscent of the Last Crusade, except that it is set in South America.Surely, all these years have created a lot of hype over the Indiana Jones movies, and to tell you the truth, this movie lives up to most of it. On the positive side, Harrison Ford is impressively fit (both physically and mentally) as Indy and is every inch as likable now as he was back then, the action sequences are top-notch, and for the most part, done without the infamous CGI, the special effects are very good, and it's very good to see Karen Allen, my personal favourite of the Jones ladies (and for most, I might say), return in this movie. The moments of humour are effective, and the movie's fast pace never lets up for a minute. The plot twist between Indy, Marion, and Mutt (whose real name is Henry Jones III) is a grabber.On the flip side, the screenplay has a number of gaps and unfinished ideas. First of all, there is almost no back-story shown about what has Indy done through all this time other than spoken dialogue, but most importantly, the Soviets are portrayed in an unfairly stereotypical manner, making them essentially the Nazis of the past films with a hammer and sickle. Cate Blanchett's character, Irina Spalko isn't well written despite the actress's convincing portrayal, and her Soviet grunts are just stock. Mac (Winstone) makes some great comic relief, but I find his double-triple agent subplot too far-fetched, even for spy-story standards.All in all, this movie reminds me of what action movies are all about: a temporary escape hub from our drab everyday lives, plenty of slam-bang, explosions, stunts, exotic locations, the whole shebang. And this movie meets all the requirements. Crystal Skull may pale when compared to Raiders and the Last Crusade, I personally find it better than the mercilessly dark and gloomy Temple of Doom. The movie may be flawed, but you'll surely be entertained from the first scene down to the end credits.Originally, Indiana Jones was meant to be a five-picture deal. With this movie, the deal is just one film short of completion. I can't wait for the sequel!
__label__7 I felt compelled to write a review, primarily because there are so many "1 star" reviews taking up residence on this site. Let's be frank, folks. If it wasn't Pixar, you wouldn't be whining about how "awful" it was.Here's the truth for those who are actually interested in seeing it: it's a pretty great flick.I would love to hop on here and tell you that everyone's wrong and it's the most amazing animated movie I've ever seen, but that wouldn't be true. I would honestly say it's near the bottom when compared to all the other Pixar films.But it's still a lot of fun. Here are the most laudable aspects, in my humble opinion:1: The animation is the best Pixar has done to this point. It's truly beautiful! They did a tremendous job of capturing the beauty of nature, from forests to prairies, and interposing an almost cheesy-looking dinosaur in the midst of it was fantastic. Don't waste your time with a DVD on this one, splurge for the Blu-Ray.2: The characters are heartwarming, and the plot is simple. Frances McDormand is especially wonderful as the mother of the simple farming family of apatosaurs, and the characters are driven by simple values like family and hard-work. I understand why many were frustrated with the simplicity of the plot, but do we always have to jump the shark in a movie? It's a fun and beautiful journey.3: It's a beautiful parody of a classic western story/film. I'm a little annoyed that the previews didn't push this aspect more, because a lot of the movie-bashing is based on the fact that people didn't get the story they expected. This is not unlike classic Disney movies like "The Incredible Journey." Don't expect something modern or game-changing here. This is just a twist on a classic homecoming story.I hope this preview helps dispel some of the hate. It's a fun movie, and worth a watch, even if it's not my favorite Pixar.
__label__7 The fact that this movie still holds a score of a 6.8 with hundreds of 1/10 scores shows you just how good it is. I'm not here to preach that it's an awesome movie, but give it the score it deserves. (It's not PIXAR's best, but still fits the bill of a good movie.)Honestly the highly negative scores are just because people were not BLOWN away. A PIXAR movie sets the bar so high, so the fact that this one isn't an A+, people are bashing just to bash.I watched this with my cousins, all at the time were under 10 ( 7 & 9 ) and nothing was too scary. Could it be over the top for 4 or 5 year old, of course, but it's not that bad. The Lion King is regarded as one of the BEST Disney films ever and there are similar scenes with death, scary bad-guys, hard times, etc. Give it a watch.
__label__7 reading the other reviews about this film i can barely believe my eyes! all of you are complaining about it being to violent and having bad influences on kids but it is one of only 4 Pixar movies with a PG rating which should tell you it might be a little darker than other Pixar films. but here is m review, The film revolves around a little scared dinosaur named Arlo and i think Arlo represents many of the kids in our modern society, in the film they bring problems like Loneliness, not feeling like you belong, the importance of family, death,conquering you're fears into the light.The scene near the end where Arlo lets Spot go and join his new family was really really touching. for those complaining that the plot is too simple, remember that it is in facts a kids movie its supposed to be, its not a film that you sit down and think about hours on end after viewing it, it'something you enjoy there and then.all in all I really enjoyed the movie, it had me laughing at times and had me crying at times.
__label__7 This should have been an easy review to write. Brave should have been a film that cemented itself as one of the all time greats, a necessary addition to any Top Films list. It should have been a film that claimed a place in our hearts as so many other Pixar films have in the past. But it's not. And writing this review is proving anything but easy. It's hard because I'm sitting at my Dell Latitude feeling bewildered at how a film from the best animation studio in the world left me feeling lukewarm at best.A bit of background on the film first; this film went through two directors. After Brenda Chapman left the film for reasons I don't know, Mark Andrews was hired as a shoe in. This wasn't the first Pixar film to have multiple directors, just unplanned multiple directors. This is where my major problem with this film stems. Everything from Brenda Chapman is textbook Pixar class and charisma, but once Mark Andrews gets the reins (and you WILL know when it happens), the film takes an abrupt and uncomfortable shift towards the dark, and really challenges the boundaries of PG. It feels like two different films tacked on to one another with Gorilla Glue, it's as if the directors had no collaboration with each other. A real shame because up until it takes this dark turn, the rest of this film is a class act bursting with potential.However to lament on the pitfalls is to ignore the positives. Pixar created two characters with copybook classic credentials in Princess Merida, and her father Fergus. Merida as the independent, self-confident, inurbane princess has a tongue-in-cheek charm and a personality that brings a genuine smile to your face. The other hero of character is Fergus, his character of a bumbling king with an overpowering queen is cliché, but he's executed brilliantly and is the provider of the majority of humor on Brave. Another immensely impressive aspect is its supremely dazzling animation aesthetics, the resplendent beauty of the Scottish countryside sometimes stealing scenes from its characters. Whether or not you agree that's brilliant is more subjective.Now this may seem like the ranting of a spoilt wannabe movie critic weaned on delusions of grandeur, and hollow satisfaction from demeaning films with hype behind them, but I can assure you my size 10.5s remain firmly on the ground. This film is still a damn sight better than a majority of animated films out there, and it no doubt sets a new bar for animation quality other films won't be able to reach without a pole vault. I generally like this film and its good moments are plentiful and remind you why we love these films so much. Pixar films are utterly infectious when done correctly, Brave isn't up to the standards of their best, you won't fall in love with it, but forget the scale of its predecessors and you'll definitely be impressed by it.
__label__7 Everything about Brave is different from the Pixar norm, save the unequaled attention to detail and quality.The Disney-Pixar animated feature focuses on Princess Merida as she searches for a way to change her fate. In a journey of magic, adventure and family, the fiery Scot is launched into the ranks of the elite Disney princesses. As odd and understandably foreign as the accents felt watching the early previews for the movie, the voice acting was executed following, creating very real characters that fit their animated molds perfectly. By the end of the movie, what once sounded foreign blended into the scenery and visuals to create a completely immersing environment.In fact, amid the magic spells and tall tales of times gone by, it's the historical, Scottish feeling that made Marida's journey and transformation (and that of her mother) that much more tangible and familiar.Underneath the folk-tale storyline lies the same life lessons that ring true for young and old. Though the movie heavily focuses on a mother- daughter relationship, it's not just for girls anymore than Mulan was. Merida is a true Disney princess, with gumption, heart and an uncanny connection with nature, but the story could have been told from a male perspective and rung just as true, making it easy to empathize with Pixar's first female lead.As has been the case with almost every other one of their movies, the company has reinvented the standard for animated visuals. The environments are based on real Scottish landmarks, adding real depth to the story, and the colors are as bright as they are grounded, creating a wonderfully real world. Such visuals lend credence to the upcoming 3D re-release of Finding Nemo, though not much, but also show just how far the studio has come. All of the elements put together, Brave is a different sort of movie than many were expecting. More focused on a single pair and their quest together, not to mention darker by far, the story of Merida was a leap of faith for the once small studio. Many will have their doubts, left wanting another heart wrenching love story from Up or creative take on a beat to death genre like The Incredibles. That was never the purpose. Just as with every one of their award-winning films (Cars 2 notwithstanding), a new movie means a new chapter, new story and new style of film.Taken for what it is, Brave is a remarkable step into a whole new style of movie, proving the creative teams at Pixar will continue to write their own fate.
__label__7 If you want a movie that has a lot of action, fighting and graphics, this is the movie for you. If you want a well developed plot and good acting, it just doesn't deliver. The acting is uneven. The Spock character seems to do the best job and is believable. Some of the others seem like they are at times still reading from the script. The old original Star Trek movies had well defined relationship stories in them but in this, it seems like the characters are secondary to the graphic presentations and fighting scenes. I would even say they don't click together like the original cast. So, to me it was entertaining to a certain extent, but disappointing in that the plot was not as developed as it could have been. The actress who played the "helper" in the end did seem to be very strong and believable.
__label__7 The stunning virtual world of Wall.E shows Pixar at the top of their creative graphic powers. Going over the beautiful CGI in my head, I'm still in awe of how the designers portrayed Wall.E's integrated world and their attention to detail will serve as a benchmark for years. That said, I'm less impressed by the simple and very predictable plot. Pixar/Disney married state-of-the-art visuals with a worn plot line from an early childhood fairy tale. I'm guessing the target audience for this movie is somewhere around 6th graders. Great summer family fare but not a great movie if you want something more substantial in terms of plot and character development.
__label__7 So again we are back with a sequel of the Rush Hour series. The first two were pretty good comedy movies staring both Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker as cop partners with a typical plot with good action mixed with comedy. This one follows the same structure, but how does it hold up?If you liked the first two, you'd probably enjoy this one. There's quite a few decent action scenes and again Chris Tucker's character delivers a lot of the jokes and Jackie Chan's still got the awesome moves and stunts but is it just me or was the action a bit tamer compared to the other two? Not that its much of a problem since I still enjoyed it but just something I noticed. Anyway, usual plot including a kidnapping and this time they go to Paris, and the two meet up with a person who wants to be like a spy.It was very good and I'm glad the series is still working but perhaps the series should end here. It's hard to tell, but usually 3 movies is enough and the first one started like 10 years ago so its a rather large gap. The movie delivered a few laughs, some action scenes, and for what it was I thought it stayed true to its previous movie structures. I'm glad that Chris and Jackie still work well together, but to be honest I think the series should end with this one before it goes overload and loses what made it fun in the first place.
__label__7 I wasn't expecting much from this movie, I decided to see this movie with my friends.Boy, this movie surpass my expectation (my expectation were low...say at the level of Scary Movie 3 and 4 at best). So anyway, you've got your B level action-comedy movie and it does it quite well.Jackie Chan (Who plays as Lee) acts well as usual (have some problem for pronouncing things but I didn't mind that) and Chris Tucker is still hilarious and he's still loud as ever. The jokes were great and I had my shares of laughs and chuckles, the only problem I have with the comedy is that sometime they try to stretch it far to much and you're ending up saying "We get it already", but the comedy succeed quite well. The action scene were always a thrill and the car chase was very fun (there was a bit of laughter in the theater).There's a lot more comedy (which some jokes were cheesy) in this movie than action, but in the end I didn't mind, I still felt entertained and happy to spend my 15$ in this movie.So this is the end of my simple review, go watch this movie with low expectation and in a mood for some good laughter and action and you'll enjoy it. I give it 7/10, it's not amazing but it's still quite entertaining and worth your money.
__label__7 Director Brett Ratner returns to his element, offering a third fun, funny, and violent slapstick installment in the Rush Hour series.Rush Hour 3 sees Inspector Lee and Detective Carter back together again, trying to save the lives of a Chinese ambassador who may be on the brink of cracking open a massive organized crime syndicate called the Triads, the ambassador's daughter, and a woman with a very dangerous secret. The biggest problem, however, is the return of somebody from Lee's past with the potential to derail the otherwise stalwart Inspector. Most of this takes place in Paris, providing a different setting and a few opportunities to exploit cultural stereotypes that are new to the series. The film is jam-packed with the wild, mildly provocative humor the series is known for, and the silly but entertaining martial-arts slapstick that is Mr. Chan's trademark. Chris Tucker gives his best performance in the series, delivering a lot of comic punch and playing a nice complement to Chan's sombre and serious Inspector Lee.Rush Hour 3 delivers exactly what fans of the series look for - a simple linear action-thriller liberally decorated with a lot of cleverly written comedy and the amazing physical performance of Jackie Chan. It is better than many of Ratner's recent efforts, and a worthy entry in one of the very few comedy series I have enjoyed.
__label__7 After a reference of Rush Hour 3 in the outtakes of Rush Hour 2, I got pretty pumped and after 6 years, it was really worth the wait.. I know some people may think, "well within those 6 years Rush Hour 3 and perhaps a fourth one would be made" but I think Rush Hour 3 came in a right time and concluded this years streak of the number "3" for sequels on a good note..Now about Rush Hour 3, this time around Carter and Lee are parted back to investigate the troubling issues of one Ambassador Han (Tzi Ma), a leader of organization that its primary objective is to get rid of the remaining Triads that are a threat to the World Court Council and its leader, Reynard (Max Von Sydow) but when Ambassador Han gets shot and Han's daughter Soo Yung (Jingchu Zhang) gets kidnapped, it leads Carter and Lee on a chase to stop the Triads and it eventually leads them to the city of love, Paris. There Carter and Lee must find the source of the Triads and it's leader.. Kenji (Hiroyuki Sanada), who is Lee's long lost brother. Roaming the streets of Paris, Carter and Lee then run into a neurotic cab driver named George (Yvan Attal) who is now part of the chase and becomes their cabbie for this game of cat and mouse. With Carter and Lee now in the city of love, watching every angle.. they must put an end to the Triads and rescue Soo Yung.To me Rush Hour 3 was a very good installment, I've read some reviews where it's been said that in this movie there seems to be more humor and less action.. well the humor played a key factor in the first and second Rush Hour and I believe for Rush Hour 3, they got it just right. In my opinion expected humor is more funnier than accidental humor but this is Rush Hour and they share both qualities and so saying that, Rush Hour 3 was very good and I can't wait for Rush Hour 4....7.5/10
__label__7 Anybody going to this movie to learn about the Mayan prophecies for 2012 or for any true science, is going to be sadly disappointed. But, that is not why we go to movies anyway, is it? That is like going to see Godzilla expecting to learn something about giant lizards that vomit radioactive spray. Emmerich has taken a fictitious subject he knew would be controversial and woven some drama into it. People who tend to be slightly paranoid will no doubt be even more so after seeing the world destroyed according to interpretations of prophecy. The people who sell the books promoting the fear make money, just like the movie producers. So what? I didn't see this movie to pick up any information I haven't learned from the History Channel, nor do I believe any more than I did before, that anything bad is going to happen on December 21, 2012. Did I go expecting to be highly entertained by great CGI and action? Yes! And I wasn't disappointed! One thing many reviewers haven't been picking up on while watching this movie is the very slight tongue-in-cheekiness of the subject that Emmerich cleverly wove into the plot. He obviously doesn't believe any of the prophecy any more than most of the rest of us do. You can see it in the actors' performances too: Woody Harrelson, to wit. It is the same as a weatherman who can deliver his forecast each night without laughing because he truly doesn't know with certainty what is going to happen, but he tries to make us believe nonetheless.See this movie if you love cinema. Enjoy the things about cinema that make it great. Take a small pillow for your butt cheeks because almost 3 hours of sitting in an uncomfortable theater seat will make you wish you had. But fear not. There is so much non-stop action you won't notice the discomfort too much.The film has obvious flaws, trite clichés, and phony science, but if you are a fan of 50's sci-fi, you will love this movie. And remember, don't take it too seriously folks, just enjoy it. The end of the world isn't going to happen in 2012, there really aren't any giant grasshoppers, ants, or lizards roaming the Earth, and no one's career is going to end because of their role in this movie. It is Hollywood having a good time with a controversial subject. Nothing new there.Enjoy the show!
__label__7 Okay, the first thing I'd like to say is, ignore those comments from members who belong to 'the worst movie ever club!!' These members think it is way cool to label every slightly disappointing movie as ' the worst movie ever' and emphasize their juvenility with tons of exclamation marks. They think it is way cool to trash movies.The movie just isn't that bad. It's not that great either so ignore those who gush and tell you how awesome it is and rate it 10 out of 10.This is a film best viewed in the movie theaters on the largest screen possible to enjoy the thrilling sensation of cities breaking up, tsunamis and volcanic eruptions. This is indeed a thrilling roller-coaster ride. It is best to leave your brain at home, however, as you will cringe at the clichés, the schmaltz, and the absurdities. That doesn't make it the worst film ever, though. So go for the ride and enjoy the CG effects.
__label__7 I took my grandson to see this, but I was dreading it. I'm not a Jim Carrey fan but it's a Christmas movie, after all , so I bit the bullet and we saw it at the IMAX in 3-D.The visual effects are great, even though a lot of it was :"Look, we have 3-D!" They stayed very close to the original story, though they added a miniaturization segment that was unnecessary. Carrey was muted and did a great job with some occasional clowning around. It was actually scary in some parts, as it should be, but not overwhelmingly, and there were some laughs as well.I have always enjoyed this story, because it's one of redemption, and there is no better time than Christmas to tell it. It shows people being compassionate, even in the face of someone as seemingly heartless as Ebeneezer Scrooge. I was first exposed to this story as a little boy watching the animated version with Mr. Magoo that came out in 1962 and is shown every year on TV. There are many such movies that define the season and I truly expect this to be one of them, along with Christmas Story, Home Alone, Miracle on 34th Street, and It's a Wonderful Life.Like the Macy's Parade, we all have our list of must-see holiday movies, no matter how many times we have seen them. I really expect this to make this list, with one caveat- I'm not sure how well the non 3-D version will translate to the TV screen. But the story is timeless and this movie does a good job of telling it.
__label__7 A Christmas CAROL is an enjoyable Hollywood production, a wonderful and straight forward approach to the Dickens's source material being splendidly adopted . It is given the full ¨Motion Capture¨ deluxe treatment in this superior Holiday film. The production values & acting are both excellent, with just enough attractive to appeal to the tenderhearted, and with touching doses of horror , case of the potentially frightening elements the Ghosts of Past, Present and Future , adding sentiment ; all of them are blended into the mix, until, like a nice Christmas punch, the result appeals to all. Scrooge (Jim Carrey) is a miserly old businessman in 1840's London. He displays no charity to mankind generally, and in particular, to his employee Bob Cratchett (Gary Oldman) and his unfortunate son, Tiny Tim . One Christmas Eve he is visited by the ghost of Marley, his dead business partner. He is warned that he must change his miserly ways or face damnation. Marley foretells that Scrooge will be visited by three spirits, each of whom will attempt to show Scrooge the error of his ways.In Just One Night, He Has Seen His Past, His Present, And His Future. And They've All Come Back To Haunt Him Will Scrooge reform his ways in time to celebrate Christmas? . To his delight, the spirits complete their visits in one night giving him the opportunity to mend his ways. The first spirit, the Ghost of Christmas Past, shows Scrooge visions of his own past in which had spent much of his childhood neglected by his father over the holidays at boarding school until he was finally brought home by his loving sister Fan (Robin Wright), who died prematurely after giving birth to his nephew Fred (Colin Firth).A marvelous recounting of a Christmas vintage classic and Jim Carrey demonstrates once again his versatility on screen in this retelling of Charles Dickens' immortal story . Atmospherically, the movie is as comfortable and heartwarming as an old Christmas card .The whole concept of looking at your life in the past, present and future is creative in and of itself. After watching the movie, you may look at your life from the same perspectives. Special effects add a nice little touch,but it is Carrey's interaction with the 'ghosts' and various characters that really steal the show . Though most of us,if not all of us, have seen other adaptations in the past or read the story,and know already what to expect, Jim Carrey manages to capture pure magic with his stunningly awesome portrayal of main character Ebenezer Scrooge,and it is definitely worth a look. It's fun and different approach to the Christmas classic with top notch effects by means of ¨Motion Capture¨ a technique developed by Robert Zemeckis in previous films as Beowulf and Polar Express . A highly recommended film that nobody should miss it especially during Christmas time.¨Robert Zemeckis's Christmas Carol¨ still ranks as one of the best adaptations of the Dickens classic ever. This animated retelling of Charles Dickens' classic novel about a Victorian-era miser taken on a journey of self-redemption will appeal to Jim Carrey fans .Other versions about this stunning story courtesy of several mysterious Christmas apparitions are the following : The rather obscure 1935 version, with Sir Seymour Hicks, the 1951 British production, with Alastair Sim, adaptation released by MGM in 1938 with Reginald Owen , and the 1970 musical, with Albert Finney. Under the title of 'A Christmas Carol' a cartoon rendition (1997) by Stan Phillips and voiced by Tim Curry and another (1991) by Jimmy T Murakami with Simon Callow ,the made-for-TV productions: 1984 – With George C. Scott, 1999 – With Patrick Stewart, and the 2004 musical, with Kelsey Grammar .
__label__7 I wonder if Robert Zemeckis weren't a filmmaker if he would have become a pilot. Look at his films and you may find a recurring shot in them, if not all then at least a good lot of them: a shot up in the sky, flying around and bringing the audience along (i.e. the feather in Forrest Gump, the pull-back through the valley and mountains in Beowulf, Back to the Future with the flying Dolorean), and here too are shots like that, more than one in fact. It's exhilarating to see Zemeckis at a mastery of this particular shot, and in the full scope and awe in 3D it's even stronger to watch and wonder 'how did they do it(?)' With motion-capture, anything is possible... except, sadly, making one feel a true emotional connection to the material.Oh, don't get me wrong. It's an improvement over The Polar Express, whose creepiness was more unto itself and jarring as opposed to serving the story, and one can already see advancements in the technology from Beowulf, which was also lots of fun and had an edge to it allowed only with the digital animation. But for some reason- maybe my heart is a lump of coal or I wasn't in the right Christmas spirit or something- the material in the film didn't connect with me, except those moments that were funny (intentionally or not, sometimes due to Jim Carrey's performance), and it became something peculiar. It's a story that is practically timeless, and the director is at the top of his game, almost at the same control of the medium for a particular story like Forrest Gump or Back to the Future - maybe more-so.It's also still a WOOSH experience, not carrying the same time and effort for characters to really feel fully human before our eyes like, for example, Up did back in the summer. I mention all of this first since the story we all know pretty much (as an aside, I kept thinking back to the first incarnation of the story I saw as a child, the Muppet Christmas Carol, and marveled at how both that and this film kept much of the book's dialog and storytelling devices exactly), and it's almost pointless to recant it here. What is paramount to mention though is that Zemeckis, in keeping with the tone of the original Dickens text (and having the clout that he has), makes it a true Victorian horror movie.It should be said also that children will be hit or miss with this version; while they'll delight and be awed by the animation and moments of craziness (my favorite being the scene with the ghost Marley and his entire presentation before Scrooge, unhooked jaw uneasily included), they may be put off by the "old" language, some of it in that olde 19th century English Dickens wrote in. Perhaps this is why, against his own better judgment, Zemeckis decided to add in a few scenes to change the very faithful adaptation, the key one being the chase through the streets of London in the Christmas-Future sequence. This is smack dab in the middle of what is the best segment of the film - seeing death as a silhouette with a bony finger and Scrooge's stark pleas is truly chilling - and it suddenly makes it also the worst. It kills the tension and makes a strange sensation: does one laugh at a tiny-voiced Scrooge running around like a mini Daffy Duck cartoon while he's supposed to be facing down his own demise? It's entertaining to watch, but awkward to behold at this point of the story.That the motion-capture, for all of its beauty and detail in the faces and people and locations and dazzling set-pieces, doesn't engage on a purely spiritual level (not even to the extent that 'Muppet Christmas' did, that at least had the ghost of Henson on the production to keep things truly haunting), is somewhat forgivable for what Zemeckis does accomplish here. He puts a modern spin on a classic tale, makes it approximately dark and mostly uncompromising for all ages- adults will jump possibly more than the kids at the WHOA effects- and Jim Carrey is nothing short of astonishing.Carrey plays Scrooge in such a bravura way that only calls attention to itself as a dramatic part (only toward the end, when he becomes "happy" Scrooge are there a few unintentional laughs), and it may even be the best Scrooge seen in many years in any medium. Added to this are his *other* parts in the film, as the ghosts of Christmas past and present, the former creepy just on the pronunciation of 's'. Others like Gary Oldman and Colin Firth come off more or less fine if not remarkable (Oldman as Marley is fantastic - as Cratchit, a Oldman-faced Hobbit, is another thing).
__label__7 In the Victorian era of the United Kingdom, the stingy and cranky Ebenezer Scrooge (Jim Carrey) that hates Christmas and people loses his partner Jacob Marley in a Christmas Eve. For seven years, he runs his business exploiting his employee Bob Cratchit (Gary Oldman) and spends a bitter treatment to his nephew and acquaintances. However, in the Christmas Eve, he is visited by the doomed ghost of the chained Marley that tells him that three spirits would visit him that night. The first one, the spirit of past Christmas, recalls his miserable youth; the spirit of the present Christmas shows him the poor situation of Bob's family; and the spirit of future Christmas shows his fate. Scrooge finds that life is good and God bless us everyone, changing his behavior toward Christmas, Bob, his nephew and people in general. This dark adaptation of "A Christmas Carol" by Charles Dickens to the screen is one of those optimistic films that follows the style of Frank Capra's "It's a Wonderful Life" and it is impossible not loving it. The redemption of the mean Ebenezer Scrooge in a Christmas Eve is one of the most known worldwide novels and this animation produced by Disney Company follows the style of Tim Burton and may not be the best adaptation to the cinema, but it is indeed effective and a good family entertainment. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "Os Fantasmas de Scrooge" ("The Ghosts of Scrooge")
__label__7 I HAVE REVIEWED OVER 400 Christmas MOVIES.BEWARE OF BOGUS REVIEWS. SOME REVIEWERS HAVE ONLY ONE REVIEW. WHEN ITS A POSITIVE REVIEW THAT TELLS ME THEY WERE INVOLVED WITH THE PRODUCTION. I HAVE NO AGENDA! I AM HONEST!Disney's A Christmas Carol is a 2009 American 3D computer animated motion-capture fantasy film written and directed by Robert Zemeckis. It is an adaptation of the Charles Dickens story of the same name and stars Jim Carrey in a multitude of roles, including Ebenezer Scrooge as a young, middle-aged, and old man, and the three ghosts who haunt Scrooge. The film also features supporting roles done by Gary Oldman, Colin Firth, Bob Hoskins, Robin Wright Penn, and Cary Elwes.The film & its visuals and the performances of Carrey and Oldman are great its dark tones will scare smal ones. The 3D film was produced through the process of motion capture, a technique Zemeckis previously used in his films The Polar Express.The film was released in Disney Digital 3-D and IMAX 3-D. The film however is one that has been made too many times. THE 3-D effects aside this version offers nothing new. Since most of us do not have 3-D at home then there is no need in purchasing this film. The Best thing about it was the 3-D and watching this in a theater. If you want a Great Version of the film then I recommend the 1938 MGM Version in which this version closely follows
__label__7 Jupiter is a fun ride. I love this kind of movie. Amazing visuals,great SciFi story line. I don't understand why people hate on this film so much. Sure there are some run of the mill plot points but i still really liked this movie, maybe people just love to hate these days. Not the worst film I've ever seen by far. I'd say ignore the haters and give it a go, make up your own mind. This film isn't in my top ten but i didn't hate it. I get the feeling that there are 'Matrix' haters stalking everything the Wachowski's do now to hate on them cause they didn't like they way the Matrix ended. FYI i like their ending. Am i the only one? I watch movies like i read books, even tho' i might not like the ending, i respect the storytellers right to tell the story they want to tell.
__label__7 Sometimes I really don't get IMDb and critics I avoided this movie like the plague as it had such low ratings by users and critics, so I thought it would be a complete waste of time But I've upgraded my home projector recently, and it supports 3D, and since then, I'm having fun in trying this format. Wachowski's always make great visuals, so I jumped into it because of the 3D, but with very low expectations regarding the movie To my complete surprise, it turned out the movie was very good, in the sense it was highly entertaining The story has it's flaws, like any regular movie, but it's not a complete nonsense like some people try to sell you Can't understand how rubbish movies like Fast&Furious 7 and Iron Man 3 make millions at the box office and have such good ratings, where this one flopped and has such poor ones I mean even complete trash like Godzilla, Robocop (2014), John Carter and San Andreas have a higher score than Jupiter Ascending!!! What a hell is going on with you people?
__label__7 I saw Jupiter Ascending tonight (after a VERY long wait I might add). Sadly it is not in the vain of other Wachowski films in terms of thought- provoking subject matter; however, I feel this film is being very unfairly criticized. No: the subject matter is not as deep or profound as in The Matrix, V for Vendetta, or the masterful Cloud Atlas. But it was never advertised to be that kind of film--it's a solid blockbuster movie (with plenty of room for sequels and/or prequels). I'd see it again!If you're considering watching this film, but hesitate after reading the same scathing reviews that I came across, just consider what interests you about the movie: if you're looking a movie with a complex plot and lots of underlying messages, this might not be the best choice. It's a blockbuster film pure and simple. A good one! But a very typical blockbuster/action/romance movie.
__label__7 So..yes, this isn't the best sci-fi movie in existence, but I don't think it's half as bad as everyone is saying. Let's start by the visuals. The visuals are AMAZING and are what makes this movie worth seeing on the big screen. The universe the brothers created is huge,which gives room for a lot of breath-taking scenes. This however, is one of the drawbacks of the film. The fact that the universe is so big and that it is a 2 hour film, makes the story a little sloppy. There are a lot of things left unexplained which is a pity,and too much time filled with love scenes. Moreover,the characters are either good or bad, there's not much depth to them. Despite all this, the movie is good, I decided on 7 instead of 6.5 mainly because of the visuals. You need to consider this movie as a sci-fi flick, taking into account that you don't see many original sci-fi movies around,and that the plot isn't that bad,it's just not mind blowing, I'd encourage you to see it for yourself, grab some popcorn and enjoy the movie for what it is.
__label__7 The core Tarzan story is not only iconic, it speaks to something deep within us. It is at the same time the ultimate Romance and the ultimate Action tale. It is no coincidence that, almost a century ago, when young Hollywood looked to find a franchise for its new "talkie" motion pictures, they turned to the Tarzan tale, and spawned a franchise so successful that it literally outlived the shelf life of its star.In my lifetime I have seen well over a dozen versions, retellings and re-imaginings of the Tarzan story. I have no doubt that after I am gone, producers and writers will continue to be attracted to it and continue to "make their bones" by bending it to their unique style.That said, this one is not especially good. After a great opening scene, there is the filmic equivalent of "dead air" for about 35 minutes and when the script does finally get in gear it stumbles and falls, subject to a wildly disjointed narrative and equally bizarre editing.Alexander Skarsgård has been impressive in other films (a race driver, a superhero) and I think with different material and a different director he could have connected. Christoph Waltz and Sam Jackson remain two of the most over-exposed stars in Hollywood and, good as they are, they are running out of clever ways to play the same character over and over. And over. And over.
__label__7 (RATING: ☆☆☆½ out of 5) THIS FILM IS RECOMMENDED. IN BRIEF: A conventional approach to the Tarzan story which swings back and forth, without getting anywhere. GRADE: B-SYNOPSIS: The story of a little boy who goes ape.JIM'S REVIEW: There have been many incarnations of the Tarzan legend, starting with Edgar Rice Burroughs original 1914 novel, Tarzan of the Apes. Our ape man has appeared in magazines, novels, comic books, movies, radio, cartoons, and television shows, all with varying degrees of success. Various actors have filled his loincloth, from the most famous actor in this role, Johnny Weissmuller in the 1940's, to Gordon Scott in the 1950's and Ron Ely taking hold of those vine reins in the mid 60's. His legend lives on once again in this modern day re-boot, The Legend of Tarzan, with Alexander Skarsgård as our muscle-toned hero. The story adheres to its source and follows the basic outline of Burrough's novel. Told in flashbacks, we learn of an infant left in the jungle without parents and adopted by the great apes. Tarzan, now John Clayton III, Lord Greystoke, lived and thrives in his tropical environs until he was rescued and returned to England. Having difficulty readjusting to British society, he finds a comrade in the beautiful Jane Porter (a beguiling Margot Robbie). Upon his return to his childhood home in the Congo, Greystoke (a.k.a. Tarzan) discovers man's cruelty in the form of Belgian huntsman, Leon Rom (a typecast Christoph Waltz, playing, what else, but the villain). Whereupon Tarzan must takes sides to protect his adopted tribe of primates and protect his homeland.Mr. Skarsgård plays Tarzan as an eloquent victim, more at home with his hairy friends than his human species. No "Me Tarzan, you Jane" monosyllabic banter here, and no loincloth either. This Tarzan mixes the physicality and brutishness of Stanley Kowalski with the sophistication and aplomb of a true noble gentleman, no small feat. If only the film matched his interpretation also.The Legend of Tarzan is all too proper and seriously-minded which cuts down on the fun and adventure. David Yates directs his film solidly, keeping the action moving. Yet the production design by Stuart Craig seems too well-crafted for its own good, nothing out of place. It lacks authenticity in its detailing. This man-made jungle is just too pristine, so clean and sanitized just like its story. (When the vines look suspiciously like greenish rubber tubes and the cragged rocks like painted styrofoam, something is a bit off.) The special effects aren't that special either. Except for the primates, most of the animal kingdom is obviously the results of CGI, effective but slightly unreal and unsatisfying.On the plus side, the fluid camera-work by Henry Braham has an acrobatic energy, especially as Tarzan travels from vine to vine, the best part of the cinematic experience. Mark Day's fine editing enhances the effect. The panoramic vistas help to give the film a sense of epic adventure, even if the adventures we witness never attain the grandeur of other epic film tales due to its script.The narrative structure swings from its more interesting backstories (Tarzan's early life and upbringing, his adaptation to his aristocratic England, Jane's personal journey) which are only hinted, to the standard main story dealing with The Great White Hunter's poaching of ivory, diamonds, and the slave trade...granted all important subjects, but the treatment is painted in the most black and white terms with the widest of brushstrokes. That's the problem...there are no grey stokes in this Greystoke's version.None of the characters are remotely real or believable, but the roles are well cast. There is a nice chemistry between the two leads, although their beauty reminds us too often of an Abercrombie and Fitch ad. Both are gorgeous human specimens who fortunately can act, even if the dialog that they are given by screenwriters Adam Cozad and Craig Brewer, is banal and stilted.Given strong support is Samuel L. Jackson as the real life George Washington Williams, a political activist and do-gooder, but his character, as written, speaks in anachronistic modern day jargon. Still the actor brings much needed bravado and is amusing in his role. Djimon Hounsou as the avenging chief does some effective underplaying when Mr. Waltz again overplays the menace angle. However he does bring some interesting human quirks to the part. (Nice moment with the silverware arrangement, Christoph.)All in all, the initial story line remains intriguing, the action sequences entertain, and Mr. S. makes an awesome impression, all swagger, six-pack, and sensitivity in a tight delightful manly package, although his fluent English language skills are never addressed.This Tarzan has its flaws, but it does keep the legend intact, until the next chapter.Visit my blog at: www.dearmoviegoer.comANY COMMENTS: Please contact me at: jadepietro@rcn.com
__label__7 The story of Tarzan is so ingrained into the brains of moviegoers that it's difficult to really put a new stamp or add something fresh to something so well-known. While Legend of Tarzan certainly attempts to take a new approach structurally, it never swings off the screen as gracefully as I had hoped.2016 has been a rough year for big budgeted films. So many bombs and duds overshadow some of the great ones we've had through the first half. This film isn't necessarily in either camp. It begins the second half of this year with a formidable installment in the long-running ape-man franchise. David Yates, director of the last four Harry Potter films, does absolutely nothing special with the characters of Tarzan and Jane, but I was nonetheless entertained by the film from beginning to end.Alexander Skarsgård and Margot Robbie portray Tarzan and Jane respectively. Both give solid performances but neither brought anything new to the characters. It took me awhile to adapt to Skarsgård's more guarded portrayal. In fact, for a good portion of the first half, I found his performance to be quite stiff. Tarzan isn't supposed to be running around cracking jokes, but I would have liked to have seen a bit more lightness to him. Although Robbie is very good as Jane, she doesn't get a whole lot to do as she's tied up by the villainous Leon Rom (Christoph Waltz) for half the film. She's far from a damsel in distress, because she's definitely not helpless, but the plot constantly puts her in position to be a device or Tarzan's motivation to do something. I think Robbie could have done something special given the chance.Undeniably good, however, is everything to do with the apes. I've seen the backstory before, but I loved watching his ever-changing relationship with his family of apes and the various flashbacks to what came before Tarzan's venture into home life in England. It's also where the film succeeds the most visually. While some animals, including a pretty bad ostrich, are weak on CGI, the apes are animated tremendously. The cinematography through the jungle and in the African mountains is quite beautiful. However, there are several moments of awful green screen footage. I'm talking cringe worthy background visuals.Having said all this, I was definitely invested in the story they were telling. Tarzan is thrust into a choice to return home and chaos ensues when Leon Rom, a corrupt Belgian captain who tricked him into returning to the Congo in the first place. At times the tone blurs the lines from taking its source material too seriously and supplementing it with some weak dialogue with an average romance. I think that's the best way to describe most of the film, average.I appreciate the filmmakers approach in taking the Tarzan story in a different direction in having it be about his return home and to his animalistic ways. But the best part about this film is Tarzan's relationship to his ape family and the background to that. I would have just liked to see more of that side of things rather than just bits and pieces here or there. Christoph Waltz was exactly what I needed out of a Tarzan villain and Samuel L. Jackson's humorous sidekick to Tarzan worked seamlessly. To me, there's plenty good here, but there was potential for greatness.+Solid performances from the leads+Samuel L added some much needed humor+Apes Apes Apes+Some visuals and fight scenes-Others were too noticeably green screen-Struggles to balance tone at times-Needed more apes7.4/10
__label__7 X-Men: Apocalypse is the sequel to Days of Future Past and takes place  about a decade later in the '80s. This movie entertained me from start  to finish and I can't say I was ever bored. But there are a lot of  things I was not satisfied with while watching. Starting off with the  good, Magneto and Professor X continue to be the best parts of these  movies. Michael Fassbender as Magneto is amazing and he has a really  emotional scene towards the beginning which got me locked into the  film. James McAvoy is also great as Xavier. The internal battles inside  Xavier's head were riveting. I really liked the new cast of the younger  X-Men, like Jean Grey, Storm, Nightcrawler, and Cyclops. Quicksilver  has another awesome scene just like the previous movie. The action is  handled very well for the most part. The first half of the movie is  terrific, but the second half brings it down.  Apocalypse as the villain was OK for me. Some scenes worked well and  others didn't. I was always skeptical of Oscar Isaac as Apocalypse and  I still don't think he was the best choice. He is just like Jesse  Eisenberg as Lex Luthor for me. Apocalypse is also a small mutant  compared to the others for some reason and he's just another villain  who is obsessed with destroying the world, and his motivations are  thin. Jennifer Lawrence was a boring Mystique. She just seems  uninspired throughout the run-time and becomes tedious since she uses  the personality over and over again to play the character. Some mutants  were completely wasted here with Psylocke and Angel. There's an entire  sequence in a secret lab and it seemed there for only one reason: the  cameo of a specific person. While it was fun to watch, it didn't do  much of anything for the story in the long run. The entire thing could  have been removed and the movie would have been the same. The final  battle felt underwhelming with the whole global extinction. The problem  is they don't show any civilians dying; it's just buildings coming  apart, making it hard to care about the situation.   Overall, X-Men: Apocalypse is a disappointing sequel to First Class and  Days of Future Past. But it is not at all a bad movie. Magneto and  Professor X are once again great, Apocalypse is a mixed bag, the pacing  for the movie is all over the place, and the dull second half just  brings the film down from the really good first half.  X-Men: Apocalypse gets a B-.
__label__7 As you can probably gather I thought this was another very good addition to the X-Men franchise. Whilst it doesn't hit the heady heights of Days of Future Past it still is a really good watch and I fail to see why it has had a mixed press.Firstly I found it to have a perfectly serviceable story, with Apocalypse and his followers recruiting the very vulnerable and angry Magneto as part of his plan to destroy civilisation and rebuild it in his image. Fassbender turns in another solid performance and you really feel his pain and confusion for the Erik/Magneto character. I also thought all the supporting cast were absolutely fine in their roles, and to me Evan Peters as Quicksilver really stole the scenes he was in and makes a fine addition to the cast. The same also goes to Tye Sheridan as Scott/Cyclops, whose back story is filled in better and with more depth than it was in the Wolverine origins film.I see the critics have been moaning about having too many characters in the film, yet I actually think it was handled better than it was in the Captain America: Civil War film. In Apocalypse the large cast do actually have something to do and contribute to the story, whereas the Captain America film felt like some were shoe horned in, which I felt made that film feel bloated and repetitive whereas this one at least get the storyline moving. I felt that Civil War felt way too long because of all the story padding yet Apocalypse, whilst also a long film, kept my interest to the end (and yes there is a post credits scene that I suspect is setting up Wolverine 3). I should also add that Apocalypse, despite it's bleak story, does have some moments of humour and wit that went down well with the audience.I also felt the surprise appearance of Wolverine fitted in nicely with the back story that we already know, particularly the one told in X Men 2 and the Origins film, nicely closing that particular characters story arc and fitting in perfectly with the circumstances surrounding his appearance in the very first X-Men film of 16 years ago. If this is to be Wolverines final appearance with the X-men then they have given him a lovely send off.I did find some minor flaws with the film though, particularly with the visual appearance of some of the characters and how their ages don't compute when the first X-men film of 2000 is taken into account. However, asides from that I thoroughly enjoyed X-Men Apocalypse and thought it was a solid & worthy addition to the other X-Men films. The films had spectacle, action, laughs and carried on with the journeys of the characters we have got to know and love over the past sixteen years.
__label__7 I loved all the X-Men movies, including X-Men Origins: Wolverine. I was so hyped when I heard they were creating an X-Men movie with Apocalypse in it. I have always loved superhero movies about the end of days. I will say specific parts that I loved and thought about this film and how I would recommend it.How good is this movie? It may not top the previous X-Men movies but that doesn't mean the movie is terrible. It is all based on opinion. Don't be scared to see the movie all because critics are making this movie look bad, go see it for yourself for your own opinion. You decide whether the movie is good or not. In my opinion, it is actually good. Not great, but good.Are the younger versions of the X-Men in this film? Yes. We have a younger version of Cyclops, Jean, Nightcrawler and Storm. We also have many amazing recurring members from the previous movies such as the young Professor X who was amazing, a slight older Magneto, Mystique who is also a little older and Beast who is still young as ever. And yes, Quicksilver returns and tops his amazing scene from X-Men: Days of Future's Past. How is Apocalypse the character? Honestly, I feel that Apocalypse was a little weaker than his comic version. If he was CGI like Thanos from Guardians of the Galaxy, he would've looked more threatening and tyrannical. I could basically compare this Apocalypse to a wimp who cosplays as Apocalypse with really good make up. His role is almost similar to Ultron.Is Wolverine in this? Yes! He may have a small cameo but it is a damn excellent cameo! When Wolverine enters the screen, the film basically transforms into an R-Rated action scene. Now that is who Wolverine is. It is also based on the real weapon x origin of Wolverine. He acts like a wild animal and slashes anyone who gets in his way and even this guy who begged Wolverine for mercy got his face ripped off! How dark is this film? It is actually pretty dark. There is a lot of death and depressing moments you will feel. We also get more connected with Magneto and why he hates humanity so much. It almost felt as he was the main antagonist in this film. We see his past and his present and why he turned into a dark and yet powerful supervillain. Also, the way Apocalypse murders people is pretty brutal and frightening.Would you recommend it? Of course! Like I said, it may not top the previous X-Men films but that doesn't mean it is terrible. If you love X-Men, as well as apocalyptic superhero movies, then this is the film for you. Go see it!
__label__7 En Sabah Nur is Apocalypse, the first mutant who ruled ancient Egypt until he was entombed. It's the 80's. CIA agent Moira MacTaggert goes to Egypt and witnesses his emergence. He recruits his four horsemen Magneto, Storm, Psylocke, and Angel giving them greater power. Meanwhile, Raven recruits Kurt Wagner/Nightcrawler from an East Berlin fight club. Alex Summers brings his younger brother Scott to Professor Charles Xavier's school. Quicksilver arrives at the school just in time to rescue almost everybody from an explosion but Professor X is kidnapped by Apocalypse.I really like the first half. There are some good introduction of the new characters. It's working fine for the most part. It hits the pinnacle with Quicksilver's rescue which is funny and exciting. It is visually dynamic and a joy to behold. The rest of the movie feels like a long slow slide into mediocrity.The most troubling problem for the continuing franchise is the use of Mystique as the leading X-Men. That character has never been in that role. JLaw is struggling to put out the intensity to match the central part. She and her character is not up to the task so far. It's also funny that her powers is to not be JLaw. The other problem is Apocalypse. I hoped for better but his mega-destruction is underwhelming. It's a lot of bland and his powers are nebulous. I actually think it would have been better to allow Apocalypse to be a two-parter. As an one-and-done villain, he isn't allowed to be anything more than a monster of the moment. With a lower level of power from him, it could be more compelling to struggle for the soul of each horseman. As it stands, the character Apocalypse is nothing special.
__label__7 The first X-Men trilogy was weirdly obsessed with Wolverine, and by extension Rouge. I never understood why... This new trilogy is obsessed with Mystique just because America's sweetheart Jennifer Lawrence is portraying her. I don't mind it, but Mystique is no hero, she is a devious villain! And Beast should be well a Beast, but a handsome Nicholas Hoult is better to look at I presume. Storm is not a villain, she is a beloved X-Men character that has never been done justice. These are things that enrage fans over and over again.It is not about being a purist, but about honoring the original. In an age where superheros are invading our cinemas, one could do worse if one watches a film about hope and freedom, about homophobia, racism, bigotry, immigration and all sort of other social issues. And somehow none of the X-men films so far have successfully brought these themes to the screen.This film suffers from having to focus on thousands of characters and locations. Some characters like Mystique and Magneto are given substantial screen time, while others such as Psylocke are given only a few scenes. The film also tries to fit into the overall X-Men continuity, while trying to stand up on its own.A great film for a pop-corn viewing with your friends, but a sub-par X-Men film in general... It is sad that the most substantial superheroes of our age, that really have something to say about the world we live in, are treated as badly as this...Mutant and proud? Unfortunately there is nothing to be proud of except the money the film is about to make.
__label__7 This movie is by no means, bad... In fact, it is a very enjoyable watch. Bryan Singer paid attention to story, however, 2 big problems arise from the ashes Apocalypse wanted to build upon.Firstly; Apocalypse wasn't supposed to just be the main villain, he was also supposed to be THE event, an apocalyptic event - I'm sorry, but after 16 years, the wait doesn't quite feel over just yet... Sadly, he was incredibly underplayed. The dude is immortal, period! He can alter his molecular form to suit any situation... He can possess any being of his choosing, at will... Transform different parts of his body into weapons simultaneously, and absorb energy... So, Cyclops is probably the WORST person to fight him! Also, as far as I know, Apocalypse already had telepathic abilities... The man is damn near impossible to defeat, but I understand that it has to be done, however, the way in which it was done, though very enjoyable to watch, wasn't good enough. Phoenix had to do it, but, was Jean ready to transform? And also, were the humans, the human race aware, that uuhhm, the world might end? I mean... the apocalypse was, so contained that, I could've been in Egypt watching Survivor, while completely unaware that I may not.However though, a lot about him, was done right... Was done very well. His ability to enhance powers, his demagogue ability... His apparent bond with celestial technology... His presence as a whole, was arrogant and powerful (nicely done Oscar), and I liked that.Second problem; You spend the whole movie trying to figure out if, the time line makes sense... I mean, Apocalypse is the 8th installment of this universe, and they've been going so back and forth in time that, I may just get a second shot at that other love of my life that got away back in 2007, in 2007. But whats awesomely annoying is, Bryan Singer may be linking the times like a pro.From there, Quicksilver - the only thing Fox did far better than Marvel - was amazing. Xavier, Magneto, Beast and Nightcrawler delivered. Mystique... I don't know, Jennifer didn't feel like she wanted to be there. Jean, Cyclops and Havok, the relations were relayed well, Psylocke (who's so very hot) and Angel were, meh... And Storm... (Alexandra also, so very hot), OK.Disappointed, no. Apocalypse could've blown me away, but, I'm happy to stay. 7/10.
__label__7 I've got to be honest. This was the comic book movie I was least looking forward to this year but I went to see it anyway because the trailers made it look decent. I didn't go in expecting much but I was surprised when I really enjoyed this movie. It is no where near as good as First Class and Days of Future Past but it is still worth your time. Apocalypse was a great villain and Oscar Isaacs played him brilliantly. I also didn't mind the costume that much (It could have been better though). Most of the cast was really good in the film (My favourite being Evan Peters as Quicksilver). However unfortunately Jennifer Lawrence was not at her best in this film. She just didn't have the enthusiasm and looked bored for most of the film. I also didn't really like the actress that played Jean Grey. I'm not sure what her name is but to me she was just kind of wooden and boring to watch. I do wish that they could have developed the horseman though (Not counting Magneto) because it seemed like they didn't have much reason to suddenly be bad (Especially Psylocke). The things this film sets up also gets you quite exited for future instalments. I definitely think it is a good thing that they seem to be re-doing The Dark Phoenix Saga and possibly introducing one of my favourite X-Men villains: Mr Sinister. Overall this film is enjoyable and any comic book fan will most likely enjoy it because it is still better than Batman Vs Superman.
__label__7 While I prefer First Class and Days of Future Past, Apocalypse truly surprised me. It has the grandest scale of any X-Men movie, and possibly of any superhero movie period. It revolves around the first mutant born tens of thousands of years ago, En Sabah Nur, hailed as an all-powerful god in Egypt before a mutiny in the ranks caused his pyramid to collapse, burying him in the process. Fast forward to the '80s and we see Moira MacTaggert (Rose Byrne) investigating a cult following of this mysterious mutant. Unbeknownst to her, only the smallest amount of sunlight was needed to awaken En Sabah Nur who subsequently causes an earthquake that is felt across the globe. The beginning of this movie is slow, and rightfully so. It shows the origin of Apocalypse, at least how he came to be trapped for all these millennia, and proceeds to show the individual X-Men characters in their respective settings. Magneto has a wife and child, Mystique is rescuing captured mutants like Nightcrawler and Angel, and Professor Xavier is teaching classes in his school. Soon enough, Scott Summers enrolls in the academy and meets Jean Grey. This sounds like a lot to cram into a movie, and it is, but this background was necessary as a foundation for the story to build upon, and boy does it ever.Apocalypse is one of those villains that has only one goal: world domination. Has it been done a thousand times before? Absolutely. Has it been executed as well as this? Probably not. If there was ever a practical motive for a villain to want to push the reset button on Earth, this is it. The guy's name is freaking Apocalypse and was hailed as a god in his time, and having seen how corrupt the world has become, he believes it's time for some new leadership. He has a huge ego and even huger powers to boot. He recruits some mutants, including Storm, Angel, Psylocke, and eventually Magneto, to help fulfill his global extinction plan, and it's exactly as destructive as it sounds. This might be the most catastrophic and destruction-filled action I've ever seen in a superhero movie. Cities crumble into dust, the Earth itself collapses from the inside, every nuclear warhead launches simultaneously across the world. It's pure pandemonium.The acting is superb across the board. There's no need praising McAvoy or Fassbender as they've proved themselves many times over. The newcomers are the real shockers here, especially Scott Summers played by Tye Sheridan and Jean Grey played by Sophie Turner. Both are brilliant in their roles and have great chemistry in the scenes they share. Oscar Isaac is excellent as Apocalypse. The material he's given is fairly vanilla but he pulls it off with both charisma and restraint, acting exactly how you'd expect a ten thousand year old god to act in the modern age. And the guy is just menacing to look at. He has a magnetic, commanding presence, and suitably so, being the most powerful villain ever put to screen. Evan Peters kills it as Quicksilver yet again and is given more screen time, plus another show-stealing scene for the fans of his DoFP debut. It's a large cast but it never feels unbalanced. The characters that need to shine do indeed shine, and even the background characters have their rightful place in the movie. It wasn't cluttered like it could have been. Rather, some of the best scenes in the movie are quiet character building moments.This was officially the last straw for me in regards to the credibility of critic scores. Just because it's not as good as Civil War doesn't make it a bad movie, and their criticisms of "a cliché villain" and "underwritten characters" are asinine and nitpicky. We needed a villain like this. Galactus was the closest we got to an apocalyptic villain but he was raped, mutilated, and morphed into a fart cloud in The Silver Surfer. It's about damn time we get a guy literally called Apocalypse to bring the world down to its knees. The characters are "underwritten" only in the sense that they don't spend twenty minutes going through each of their backstories and that's because they didn't have to. The movie captures their unique personalities and quirks within five minutes of them being on screen.X-Men: Apocalypse isn't a perfect movie but it's the epitome of a great summer blockbuster. The visuals are stunning, the chaos is immense, the humor is well placed, the pacing is spot on, the music is great (Metallica and Beethoven anyone?), and the entire film builds up to an explosive climax that delivers everything you'd want in an X-Men movie of this magnitude. If you're a fan of superhero movies, do yourself a favor and take the critic scores with a grain of sand. This is a must-watch.
__label__7 X-Men: Apocalypse was very fun, but got quite messy at parts. X-Men fans will like this just like I did. it is a huge step down from Days of Future Past and has a pretty clichéd villain. I forgave the clichéd villain because of how cool and how frightening he was. Oscar Isaac did so good as Apocalypse. The characters are well developed, but some of them do not get enough screen time and some get to much. Angel, Psyloche and Storm have no motivation, there is no reason why they agreed to help Apocalypse destroy the world. What would they gain? Overall I thought the movie was good, I had a blast watching it and will be watching it again.
__label__7 In terms of animated features, Pixar ventures where very few other animated films have gone before and that is to delve into the lives of the elderly generation. In fact, having any film (animated or not) examine what it is like to grow old and the roller coaster ride that is life would normally mean you are in for some heavy material indeed. This is because true depictions of life are not constantly joyful and grand, it is always hand in hand with tears and hardships. In this respect, Pixar are to be applauded to have dared create a "kids" film that explores the circle of life in all its vivid glory and personal heartache.Those who have scored UP poorly have undoubtedly felt misled, disappointed or even cheated because oftentimes when one thinks of Pixar, one thinks of imaginative explorations of what it would be like if our toys were alive (Toy Story 1 and 2), or if cars could talk (Cars), or if a mouse wanted to be a gourmet chef (Ratatouille), or how a family attempts to be "normal" when they all have superpowers (The Incredibles). Previous Pixar stories have always reached the realms of "brilliant" because these imaginative explorations are balanced with plot depth, humor and characters which audiences connect to and cheer for. Whether it's an ant trying to show his colony that they should stand up to the grasshoppers (A Bug's Life) or a humble cleaning robot guiding humanity home and trying to find love (Wall-E), all Pixar films are both fantastical and deeply meaningful thus showing their movies are more than just eye candy.And this is where UP has divided the people. Don't get me wrong, UP has the fantastical and the deeply meaningful in spades, the difference here is that Pixar explores these to the extreme.Flying a house to South America using thousands of balloons, dogs with futuristic collars that allow them to translate their "dog" language into English (or any other human language) and lest not forget they can also cook, a mythical rainbow colored bird and an old man who uses a walking stick in the first half of the film but can do "Indiana Jones"-like feats in the second half of the film - Fantastical? CHECK.Boy meets girl, they fall in love, they marry, they discover they can't have children, they grow old together, wife dies, old man lives alone in house which he calls by his wife's name while high rise buildings are being constructed around him, old man attempts to fulfill promise to his deceased wife by flying to South America taking the house with him, and all that doesn't even cover the background story of the boy scout (who's father has left him and now only lives with his mum) who tries to help the old man out - Deeply meaningful? CHECK.The daring exploration by Pixar of both these fantastical and meaningful themes has resulted in a beautiful, at times humorous, oftentimes heart-wrenching and flawed (but not necessarily in a bad way) film.Never before has Pixar challenged the audience to such a level. Are you able to suspend belief to the point where you can believe a house can be lifted off by thousands of helium filled kids balloons and yet at the same time be willing to invest in an old man (who himself is flawed in more ways than one) and experience both the pain of love lost and the goal of hope found? Will parents be willing to explain to their young children about life and death? Will kids understand the adult themes? Will adults enjoy the ride or will they feel the movie is too depressing and the events too unbelievable? These are the questions which Pixar has dared audiences to confront.As for me, I enjoyed the film, I laughed during the bits where you're meant to laugh, and I was moved to tears during the bits where you were meant to be moved (especially the beginning which shows the fast forward life of old man Carl). I struggled at times with suspending my belief of the events in the second half; how both Carl and Russell (the boy scout) manage to do the physically astounding is not to be thought about in depth. All in all, a brave film by Pixar that doesn't quite reach the lofty heights of brilliance but if looked at from above has many lessons to be learned and perhaps, just perhaps examines the flaws in all of us (especially as we get older) and how we should all try to reach UP to greater heights.
__label__7 "Up" may be more emotionally charged than previous Pixar efforts, though almost exclusively in its first act, and is nevertheless a step down in storytelling for the company that last year brought us "Wall-E" and before that "Ratatouille." "Up" suffers in comparison to those films, and happily resigns itself from 'good Pixar' to regular good.The story follows reluctant protagonist Carl Fredrickson, a 78-year old balloon salesman, who along with his now-departed wife, always dreamt of flying to adventure in Paradise Falls, South America. During a moving, poignant montage of his life, it becomes clear that the opportunity for adventure is passing the couple by. So when the widower Carl is sued and his home threatened, he takes the opportunity to take off, the house held afloat by thousands upon thousands of colorful balloons for the adventure he never had. All goes according to plan until he discovers Russell, an overeager "wilderness explorer," has stowed away beneath his porch.The second act is the film's weakest, and the adventure advertised boils down to a few paltry miles. After a brief storm sequence, the unlikely pair find themselves on the other side of the canyon, but nevertheless "three days" from Paradise Falls. With the floating home strapped to their backs, Carl and Russell begin their trek, only to be sidetracked by the obligatory supporting characters, amusing though they may be: "Kevin" a fictional female dodo-like bird with hilarious favoritism, and "Doug" a golden retriever with a dog-to-English translation collar.Where the film finds itself in trouble is in keeping the established themes at the forefront of the story when the arbitrary sequence of events in the second act unfold. The villain, Carl's childhood idol (which makes this guy how old?), a disgraced adventurer by the name of Charles Muntz, is the perfect match as a man who's been corrupted by his dreams, but he's never developed to a satisfying level and receives relatively little screen time.Muntz's minions are a wellspring of only occasionally successful gags, an armada of translation-collared dogs tasked with hunting down Carl, Russell, and most importantly, Kevin. Their presence in the film feels somewhat random, and not quite funny enough to justify. It's becoming an ironically dirty word in reference to Pixar's work, but it all feels a little too cartoony.The visuals are as strong as the best Pixar has offered, though shot composition gives everything a sort of flat feel to it (a problem perhaps 3-D was meant to rectify), with characters seldom moving on more than one plane, leaving the environments feeling oddly like stage backdrops."Up" is sadly Pixar's last original film until 2013, but with its glaring screenplay problems, it may be for the best that the studio recharge its creative cannons. After ten feature films, nine completely original, it's hard to leverage complaints against "Up" greater than that it simply isn't their best work. It may not be the revelation that "Ratatouille" or "Wall-E" were, but middle of the road Pixar is still worth the price of admission.
__label__7 Let's get this out of the way first: I'm not a huge fan of DreamWorks Animation. Usually consisting of nothing more than unfunny pop culture gags, I think the majority of their films are mediocre at best, with the only ones that I really enjoyed being the first Shrek and Kung Fu Panda. The trailers for Monsters vs. Aliens did get me interested, though, and the voice cast seemed pretty impressive. Even so, I was still fairly skeptical about how it would finally turn out. Now, having seen the film, I have to say that I was very pleasantly surprised.There isn't a whole lot in the way of story and character development, but suffice it to say, it serves its purpose. What makes Monsters vs. Aliens such an enjoyable film is how it works as a comedy. The pop culture references are still present, but I found them to be more clever and funny this time around, and in much smaller amounts. I was smiling through virtually the entire film, and had about 5 or 6 hard laugh-out-loud moments throughout. As expected, I was also very impressed by the voice cast in this movie. Hugh Laurie does a fantastic job as the voice of the sophisticated (though mildly insane) Dr. Cockroach, and most of the laughs are generated by Seth Rogen's performance as B.O.B.. Even Reese Witherspoon helps you feel some sympathy for her character near the beginning of the film, and Stephen Colbert does a surprisingly solid job as President Hathaway.The 3D, while not used as effectively as it was in Coraline, is still one of the more impressive showcasings that I've seen, and that's largely due to the film's incredible action sequences. Seriously, this is some of the best action that I've seen in an animated film; as far as I'm concerned, it's right up there with that of The Incredibles.Overall, I found Monsters vs. Aliens to be a surprisingly entertaining film, with clever and witty dialogue, as well as terrific action. I'm not usually in favor of sequels, but if they're able to keep it as balanced and charming, I would honestly like to see this become a successful, long-running franchise. Nice job, folks at DreamWorks Animation.
__label__7 Okay, I'll admit I'm not big on CG movies as I always find 2D animation much more convincing and involving but I had a good time with this (along with a some relatives) and it's a pretty cool movie. However, I kinda felt a little underwhelmed; the story is good, but there's just wasn't enough substance along with the characters and action. I just felt it needed more. But it's a treat to see all the nods to '50s classic era of films that Monsters Vs Aliens pays homage to along with some good messages about being true to yourself and looking beyond one's appearance in order to know someone. Seeing the film with 3D glasses was a cool idea but in my view, 2D will suffice but still, it's good family entertainment for an afternoon. Hopefully the next film will have more ooomph, more "Monstrosity".
__label__7 When I first heard of Monsters vs. Aliens I literally went giddy. A 50's B-movie revival! Stephen Colbert as the President! Hugh Laurie as a cockroach! I mean, it's called Monsters vs. Aliens!!!What I got was a mildly good movie. I mean, there were some nice gags in the Strangelove- lite War Room, and some great lines from BOB, but it really left me wanting more. As a whole, the film never got to the comical heights of Shrek, Madagascar, Kung Fu Panda, or even Shrek 2. There are times in the movie where you know that they are going completely random to try and get some laughs, but fail pretty badly. Besides comedy, the story itself is pretty predictable. From the moment you meet the monsters you know what the moral of the story, and you know pretty much how the whole film will play out. But it is not a bad film. Not at all. It's good, but not great. What IS great is the 3D. Me, I've never really warmed to 3D, but they use it here in a completely different sense. Monster's vs Alien's 3D is not about shouting "OMG I CAN TOUCH HIS BEARD!!", but more about perspective. And hair. I'm sorry but it's worth seeing just for Ginormica's (Susan's) hair alone. So basically, it's fun - but not as fun as it should have been. And take it from me: even if you're cynical about 3D; see it in 3D. It's worth the ticket price alone.
__label__7 After a rather slow beginning in which a girl gets proposed to, the movie picks up when she gets turned into a giant on her wedding day and from that on the film is frenetically comic. Like most Dreamworks cartoons, this one can feel like it's trying too hard (Dreamworks has a Looney-Tunes-on-speed approach that can be a little exhausting), but at its best the movie is wildly funny.The story and characters are admittedly generic, but pleasantly so. But there is a certain annoying laziness to the plotting. The death of one character is treated as sad even though the audience is given no reason to care, and the female empowerment angle is a bit on the silly side. The plot is at a kid's movie level, even though the humor is funniest enough for this adult.Not a great cartoon, but a very enjoyable one.
__label__7 Monster versus Aliens is a sometimes funny and sometimes interesting, but mostly the story is dull and the plot is nearly a non-entity.However, this movie does take 3D to a new level at times. There's really only one obvious 3D "gag" very early in the movie, but other than that, you are just in awe of seeing these animated characters truly come to life like never before.The character that steals the show is of course BOB (voiced by Seth Rogen) He is incredibly dumb but also fantastically funny and the most interesting of all the monsters. The main character Susan (Reese Witherspoon) has this whole back story, but really we never care about it. Much of her story is just recycled from 100 movies that have come before and very predictable.Still, the action and the 3D are top notch and this is a movie definitely worth seeing if you can see it in the 3D form. In 2D, I only give it a very lukewarm recommendation.
__label__7 Monsters vs. Aliens is a family-friendly Dreamworks Animation feature which pits classic sci-fi monsters vs. space aliens, in a 1950's B-movie style showdown with modern humor and the visual flair available through today's computer effects. For a special treat, the film is also available in 3D.The story is simple. A meteor crashes on Earth, or more specifically, onto bride-to-be Susan Murphy. Some substance from the meteor causes her to grow to 50 feet in height. She is hidden by the government with other monsters (based loosely on The Creature From the Black Lagoon, The Blob, The Fly, and various Godzilla foes), until space aliens arrive, bent on world domination. Outmatched by the alien's technology, the U.S. government calls on the monsters to save humanity from annihilation.All of this is done with a light and fun air, with nothing taken too seriously. Like the best of recent animated features, Monsters vs. Aliens is as enjoyable for adults as for children, thanks in large part to a constant barrage of jokes and a stellar voice cast. Reese Witherspoon is wonderful as Susan Murphy, while 24's Kiefer Sutherland gets a rare chance to flex his comedic muscle as backwoods general W.R. Monger.The Office's Rain Wilson is fine as Galaxar (the evil alien), as is Arrested Development's Will Arnett as The Missing Link and House's Hugh Laurie as Dr. Cockroach. Popular political comedian Stephen Colbert, in an inspired casting choice, plays the President of the United States. Hands down the best character, in my opinion, is Seth Rogen's B.O.B, a gelatinous creature who is blissfully stupid and eats anything in his path. The character design is fantastic, and the film is a visual treat. Monsters vs. Aliens comes recommended to people of all ages.
__label__7 When a meteorite made of quantonium strikes Susan Murphy on the day of her wedding it doesn't kill her; it causes something strange to happen though... just as the service is getting underway she starts glowing slightly green then starts to grow. She doesn't stop growing till she is fifty feet tall! Understandably everybody flees in terror and the army turns up, tranquilises her and takes her to a secret facility where they keep monsters. These include Dr. Cockroach; BOB, a gelatinous blob; (Missing) Link, a strange fish/ape and Insectosaurus an enormous caterpillar like creature. It looks as if Susan will have to spend the rest of her life in captivity with these creatures until evil alien Gallaxhar sends a giant robot probe to Earth to recover the quantonium. The military is powerless to stop the robot so they use the monsters; they manage to defeat it but Gallaxhar realises that Susan has his quantonium so comes to Earth to recover it himself. If Earth is to survive his plans Susan and her monster friends will have to defeat Gallaxhar and his army of clones.This Dreamworks animation has quite a lot going for it; the animation looks good, the characters are fun, the story is exciting enough without being too scary for younger viewers and the numerous references to older films are done in a way that people who haven't seen those films won't feel like they are missing a joke. The voice work was done well with none of the characters sounding overly cartoony. On the downside there are a few jokes which seemed out of place in a film aimed at children... do we really need a joke about the president soiling his trousers? I think not. The opening scene suggested that we were going to be reminded that this was filmed in 3D at every opportunity but thankfully that was the only moment that I thought was gratuitously 3D, which was good as I was watching on television. When compared to the works of Pixar or Dreamworks own 'How to Train Your Dragon' this looks distinctly second best; however it is still pretty good; it might not be essential viewing but it is well worth watching if you are a fan of animated films.
__label__7 Susan Murphy (Reese Witherspoon) is a woman who got upsized by a meteorite on her wedding day. B.O.B. (Seth Rogen) is a gelatinous, brainless creation after an experiment on a tomato went wrong. Dr. Cockroach (Hugh Laurie) is a scientist who turned himself into a hybrid. The Missing Link (Will Arnett) is a creature found frozen and revived. And giant mutant larva Insectosaurus is a product of nuclear testing. The government has secretly collected these monster and now they need them to fight alien Gallaxhar (Rainn Wilson).DreamWorks has gathered all the iconic 50s sci-fi B-movie creations, and formed a pretty cohesive team. It's surprising that the limited backstory allowed the characters to gel so well right off the bat. It's probably due the fact that these characters seem so familiar to us. It also helps that the actors do some great voice work.The story itself has one major problem. The movie is basically split in two parts. The pacing slows down dramatically in the middle after a high intensity fight at the start. However the comedy works well especially the brainless BOB. I think this team has good potential.
__label__7 It might not be the best but it's definitely one of the funniest Dreamworks animated films in my opinion as many jokes seem a bit more for grown ups rather than kids. I also found it quite entertaining overall.
__label__7 Some people may not like Monsters vs. Aliens due to its references to B-movies, its corny jokes, and its simplistic characters. I was a little annoyed by B.O.B.'s idiocy and the other monsters are quite stereotypical but I wouldn't let that bring me down from enjoying the film.I thought that the character of Susan was really pretty and wasn't some sassy brat like some women are. She was sympathetic even to the alien. Though, I did have problems with her design, her nose was small and her eyes were big bug eyes.The team put in a lot of effort into the animation, making it turn out striking.The person who voiced Susan did a pretty good job with her character. She put a lot of emotion into her voice. And I also liked the person who voiced the other characters, too. They did a pretty good job of making them humorous and trying to capture their personalities.The dialogue on the other hand, is archetypal, though. Especially at the beginning. Once the story gets going, the movie gets way better and quite interesting.The movie was too short, it stopped at a cliffhanger. I wished they could've made a sequel of the movie from there. Also, there was not enough character development to Susan and her adjustment of being with the new monsters. Her finally knowing she doesn't need Derek felt a bit forced. But it had a lot of heart and action and some soul but not enough.While it's not as great as Shrek, it's still a good movie with high replay value and your kids will probably love it. The little ones might get bored but the older ones will love it. It was a very memorable experience to me and I think it would be a valuable film for the kids. It had a special place in my heart when I was a kid and words couldn't describe how much I loved the film. And Susan is still one of my favorite cartoon characters and I still really liked this movie.
__label__7 This may not be an all-time animated classic like Bambi or Secret of Nymh, but it's good for passing the time for an hour and a half, which is all I'm sure it was setting out to do. The lead, voiced by Reese Witherspoon, is sympathetic enough to keep us invested in the story.The supporting cast is great and what really makes this movie entertaining. There's Seth Rogen as a living blob of mush, Hugh Laurie as a mad scientist turned giant bug, and even Kiefer Sutherland as a General.Plenty of laughs, especially thanks to Stephen Colbert as the President of the United States. Recommend it if you want something to watch with the family.
__label__7 Monsters vs. Aliens is animated film about a women who is turned into a giant, becomes part of a team of monsters to defeat an alien trying to take over Earth. this is one of the few animated films that I like now a days. I'm not a huge fan of the way animation is now. I like animation from the 30s to the 80s. Directors Conrad Vernon and Rob Letterman do a pretty good job with Monsters vs. Aliens. Some of the action sequences are engaging. What really holds Monsters vs. Aliens together is the script. It is written very clever with the humor about the government and I really like the homage to old horror monsters. I had some really good laughs through this film. Monsters vs. Aliens has an impressive voice cast: Reese Witherspoon, Hugh Laurie, Seth Rogen, Will Arnett, Kiefer Sutherland, Stephen Colbert, Rainn Willson, & Paul Rudd. The whole cast delivers line after line really good giving you laughs throughout. Monsters vs. Aliens is entertains for all ages and you're bound to get laughs out of it.
__label__7 After reading the synopsis of Monsters vs Aliens, a few friends and I decided to watch it, assuming it would be one of those "it was so bad it was funny" types of movies. Regarding the plot, we were not entirely wrong. However, the movie had good special effects (even though I did not have the chance to watch it in 3d), entertainment value, and a women's empowerment vibe, which certainly is a positive message to send to any young girls watching the film.The main character is about to marry a career-obsessed TV weatherman when she encounters a radioactive material that causes her to grow to an enormous size. The man spurns her, and the movie pretty much evolves into a self-discovery process, at the end of which the protagonist recognizes her self-worth and abandons the egotistical fiancé. Along the way, the main character joins up with monsters to fight an evil-mastermind alien who is trying to retrieve the radioactive material. The creatures, though, are the typical cute and lovable characters to be expected from DreamWorks. One of which, Insectosaurus, was probably one of the funniest animated characters I have ever seen. I legitimately laughed every time it came on the screen. While I walked away thinking the movie was fairly cheesy and predictable, I was also entertained the whole way through. If you are looking for intellectual stimulation or an in-depth plot, this is probably a good one to skip. However, if you are craving a simple feel-good movie, young kids will probably love it, and while it probably won't be your favorite movie, you may find yourself pleasantly surprised.
__label__7 As far as the artistry and imagery, I was wowed let me tell you! And the plot was even great on the surface! As a mindless 'Overcoming the Monster' plot, it was superb. But...and this is a BIG but...if I see one more movie that portrays the woman as the selfless leading alpha-hero overcoming men and saving the day, and the men as (a) selfish egotists victimizing the poor hapless female, or (b) as a bunch of bumbling idiots following a woman's lead, I think I am seriously going to boycott this society. This seems to be an alarming trend in popular culture that I could really get on a soapbox about, but I'm not. At least not nearly as much as I'd like. The part that really bothers me is that men seem completely complacent in it. Completely unconscious! It would be against my conscience not to at least mention it. This is a pattern, not an anomaly. However, if you are not one to care about underlying ethical concerns such as the subtle systematic emasculation and/or vilification of men, this is a really great movie! It was one big thrill ride that really put me in awe of the creative ability of the human race.
__label__7 Since Marvel Comics and CGI started their mystical marriage in the late 1990s, we've had superheroes galore. Hulks, Surfers, Spidermen, not to mention constantly renewed Batmans and Supermans. So what does Iron Man have to offer that's different? A flawed character that becomes honourable is the answer, triumphing in the battle of Good over Evil in spite of being a bit of a prat.Add to that some of the best features of Robocop, Batman Begins and Terminator II, and you have one of the more satisfying comic-books-turned-blockbuster that we've seen for a while.Billionaire and genius Tony Stark  with a personality vaguely based on Howard Hughes  is a weapons inventor that gets captured by bad guys in Afghanistan. Forced to work for them, he has other plans. Stark, nicely played by Robert Downey Jr, fashions a hi-tech suit of armour - before going on to save the world in usual exemplary fashion.This long build-up  to explain how he becomes Iron Man  is arguably the best part of the film. Ingenious special effects give Stark's futuristic Malibu mansion a sci-fi rather than fantasy feel. And the subtle build-up makes us more forgiving as the story slips slowly into comic-book reality.There are, of course, compromises. It has to appeal to kids as well as adults, so there is none of the gutsiness of Terminator I (or similar adult-orientated sci-fi). And in spite of the heavy moral-political issues at stake, Iron Man stays politically bland  this being the only way to get D.O.D. approval and hence associated goodies like fighter jets and military hardware.One of the most interesting ideas for me in the film was the idea of 'zero accountability'. This takes the form of having all the wealth, brains and playboy attributes that fiction writers can imagine, but could also be a symbol for U.S. military might, for instance. Stark's first premise, of power being the ultimate deterrent (and hence a peace-keeping force) is undermined when the enemy gets hold of the same weapons and starts killing indiscriminately. Theologians might also muse how power itself has no moral authority. Good guys have to grudgingly beseech permission from whoever wields the biggest thunderbolt.Iron Man, essentially a symbol of power, abounds in biblical references, even if these come more from the comic book creators than any learning on the part of filmmakers. Jericho, the name given to Stark's finest military weapon, was the city that had to be destroyed, 'as an outward display of faith.' Which makes for great symbolism. Until you consider that modern-day Jericho is in the West Bank of the Palestinian territories, and then Stark's 'rockets' start to look a lot more loaded.Iron Man's technology has a special feature to avoid targeting civilians. Now this is one military development I would love to see.The second half of the movie is pure action, but with a well-delivered script and sufficient plot-twists to keep you engaged. Out-of-reach love-interest materialises as Gwyneth Paltrow, who I found very agreeable to watch, and the excellent supporting cast also includes Jeff Bridges and Terrence Howard. This is a film that tries to please everyone and largely succeeds. It's a two-hour thrill-ride that offers a new action-hero for our CGI-sated palates.On a personal note, my big disappointment was the title track  or rather lack of it. Having heard one of the most famous heavy metal riffs of all time in the trailer, I couldn't wait to see Iron Man flying through the skies to the sound of Black Sabbath's rock anthem. Sadly, the riff is all you get (probably cos the words seem to be based on an altogether different story). But if you sit through the closing credits hoping for more, you do at least get a very important extra scene. So you've been warned: don't leave the cinema beforehand!
__label__7 I watched this movie without any expectations and with an open mind. I thought it started off kind of slow but once you realise what the story is about, you really enjoy it. Having been a film student, I particularly liked where the story was going. I watched a great number of Georges Méliès movies during my studies. Hugo has great cinematography and I loved the themes of insecurity and doubt and the idea that creative people sometimes need a push in the back from someone else in order to realise what they're worth. Hugo is a very original story, although it does not always feel very coherent. I remember being left with a feeling that some questions were left unanswered and some details didn't quite add up if you really thought about them. Hugo had a Frenglish steam-punk feel to it that generally doesn't really appeal to me but that often surprises me in a good way (a bit like the professor Layton games). I would certainly recommend this movie.
__label__7 There must be something unifying in our globes collective consciousness, as 2011 saw two films that looked back at the cinematic past. Strangely, it took a French film maker, Michel Hazanavicius, to release a movie that pays homage to early, silent American cinema (The Artist). Conversely, Martin Scorsese, a well-known cinephile, delights with his love of early European silent cinema, in his often beautiful 'children's' film, Hugo.Set in 1930's Paris, the main focus of this cinematic love is the work of the first movie magician, Georges Melies. We are introduced to Hugo (Asa Butterfield), a young man whose father left him a automaton after his death. It was a project that they worked on together, but never finished it. Hugo's main mission is to get the object working. As an orphan, Hugo hides in the rafters of a train station, maintaining the clocks that his drunken uncle used to do. After befriending a young girl, Isabelle (Chloe Moretz), he finally gets the automaton working, and it opens up a mystery that leads to the forgotten cinema of Melies (Ben Kingsley), now working on a store in the station.The film shows love for silent cinema, and particularly the magic of Melies. Sacha Baron Cohen's station inspector is occasionally funny, and his character seems to be filtered through both Peter Sellers' Inspector Clouseau, and Jacques Tati's Monsieur Hulot, but he just doesn't seem to really progress at all, and feels almost like a filler character. Scorsese, like Robert Zemekis and Bob Gale before, reference that iconic Harold Lloyd moment in Safety Last! (1923), as Hugo hangs from a clock face.Like so many others who speculate about the choices of Oscar nominations, Hugo, I feel, is not a contender for the best picture Oscar. There were some far better films produced in 2011. That said, the film is beautiful, accomplished , and often fun. Also, the resurgence of interest in a forgotten father of cinema, is completely touching, and leaves a warm feeling in the heart. Unfortunately, I did not see this in 3D; as far as I am aware, Scorsese uses it to brilliant degrees, so perhaps this would have made the experience perfect (despite the fact that I care not for the dimensions of 3.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com
__label__7 If you don't take it too seriously, Its a fun and entertaining film. I don't understand why people hate it so much!
__label__7 I almost didn't see this in the theater due to all the bad reviews. What changed my mind was Roger Ebert giving it a rare positive review. Since I agree with Ebert more than most critics, I decided to go see it.I have to say that none of the reviews or comments I've read tell the whole picture, IMHO. Neither Ebert's praise nor other critics' pans are entirely appropriate. Lets' start with the basics... "The Mummy" was a modern retelling of a 30's "B" monster movie with up to date FX. It wasn't great drama, but it was a rousing thrill ride that capably did its job of entertaining you if you weren't too picky about plot, etc. The two sequels have continued this tradition. I'd rate this as inferior to the original but slightly superior to "The Mummy Returns".Much has been made about the casting of Maria Bello in the role originated by Rachel Weisz. While I'm not a Rachel Weisz fanboy, she is a very capable actress and I just don't believe Ms. Bello was up to the role. There is simply no chemistry between Bello and Brendan Fraser. There are basically only two legitimate reasons to make a sequel: 1) either there are loose ends to tie up, or 2) people really like the characters and want to see more of them. Each film in the Mummy franchise ties up its own loose ends, so the producers are risking commercial suicide to change the characters in any significant way. If they couldn't get Rachel Weisz, they should have been much more careful in recasting the role. There's very little physical resemblance between the two actresses, and Ms. Bello simply doesn't seem to have the acting chops to carry it off. That unfortunate casting choice casts a pall over the whole enterprise - but not enough to sink it.Some have criticized the film because they don't believe that Brendan Fraser looks old enough to have a son Luke Ford's age. That's arguable (all of the holdover cast is starting to show their age - especially John Hannah) but, again, it's not a deal-breaker.OTOH, the secondary roles are excellent. Michelle Yeoh and Isabella Leong are excellent while Jet Li gives another great performance as the evil emperor. Luke Ford is somewhat bland, though, and doesn't appear to be a good candidate to carry the franchise into the future.The CGI FX are generally excellent but nothing we haven't seen in the first two films. The exception to this are the yetis! With only a few minutes of screen time, they pretty much steal every scene they're in. Where the FX do seem lacking is in imagination, scale, and scope when compared to the previous two films. Perhaps that's because more of the action in the previous films took place in dark, claustrophobic settings, while here many of them are in brightly lit sunlight. The battle scenes in particular suffer in the inevitable comparison to the Lord of the Rings trilogy.Was this film made principally to milk the franchise? Almost certainly, but then so was "The Mummy Returns". But that doesn't mean it fails on its own terms. It is entertaining and supplies much of the same appeal as its predecessors. If you can watch it on those terms and if Maria Bello's casting isn't too disappointing to you, then go see it - you may have a good time. I did.
__label__7 When I entered the cinema today to see The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor, I felt certain that I would be getting a film that was great fun to watch, didn't worry too much about the plot and was supported by some great casting. But, very rarely for me, I was wrong, on two counts. This film had all the action, and all the laughs of its predecessors, yet it certainly had the strongest plot out of all of the trilogy. On this occasion, I was glad to be wrong. However, the casting was where it all fell apart, hence why this film has earned 7 brownie points from me, rather than the 9 it would have otherwise deserved. Firstly, Maria Bello was quite possibly the worst choice for Evelyn that could possibly have been made. I noticed more chemistry between Jonathon and that yak than between Rick and Evelyn in this movie. Secondly, Luke Ford, while a decent actor, bore no family resemblance to either Brendan or Maria. By the way, did anybody else remember that in the second movie, his hair was blond? Quite a large slip up there. There were five saving graces in the cast, however: Brendan Fraser once again pulled off Rick O'Connell, Jet Li was equally as evil as his predecessor, Michelle Yeoh was astounding as Zi Yuan and John Hannah provided plenty of comic relief with his lovably irritating Jonathan. Finally, the Yetis! These were an unexpected addition that, surprisingly, worked quite well.To finish, go and see this movie if you want a film that gives some cheap thrills, without pretending to be anything else.
__label__7 Steve Carell returns as prissy newsreader Evan Baxter, a little less mean-spirited this time around unlike his previous small turn in 'Bruce Almighty'. Of course, Carell was up and coming then but as his box-office success shows, the character responsible for arguably the only really funny scene in 'Bruce Almighty' deserves a film of his own. Shadayac and co. have approached it with a novel (if potentially expensive idea) to make God (Morgan Freeman) appear this time to instruct Baxter to build an Arc and, as Noah did before him, load it full of animals to protect them from an for an oncoming flood. It's an idea that's very entertaining, even if the jokes are less easy than the previous premise. Evan's transformation of appearance and being pursued by eager animals are the main areas of humour here, which means at times the film is thin on the ground. Sentiment comes in the form of Evan's neglect of his family; the audience will know exactly where this will be going, but fortunately the sentiment isn't as annoying as you might believe. It's also very much a family affair, the humour and the language very much for family audiences. Disappointingly, Shadayac, responsible for bringing out two of Jim Carrey's worst performances (namely 'Liar Liar' and 'Bruce Almighty') by letting Carrey overdo it by seemingly telling him to do the whole thing as an impression of William Shatner, mistakenly this time opts to take Carell down a notch. Carell's trademark hysteria and bizarre reactions are in short supply and we have an all together calmer 'Little Miss Sunshine'-esquire turn, which also means the film loses some of it's potential in this instance. Wanda Sykes and co. are merely stock characters needing better dialogue. Does this make it a bad film? Not at all. It's religious tie-ins (if rushed) are quite smart and it's very well directed visually with a great use of music and keeping a steady pace. It is what's on the label, but with a jaw-droppingly impressive final act which will really take you by surprise and could be up there as one of the sights of the summer! You could do a lot worse than enjoy 100 minutes of easy-going fun but if it's a laugh-out-loud roller-coaster you want, you will leave short-changed!
__label__7 Overall, I quite liked this movie. Steve Carell was very funny, the dialogue was realistic and humorous, John Goodman was quite convincing as a villain, and the effects were *awesome*.There's just one problem I had with it. It was really quite preachy.Now, I'm not what you'd call religious. I like the idea of worshipping a higher power, but the whole organized-religion thing just turns me off. Which is why this movie really bothered me; it seems that at every turn, they were shoving the Bible in my face. The whole ending message was also really lame, and ridiculously sappy. The dove with the olive branch, I ASK YOU. And Steve Carell's line: "He chose all of us." (the word He referring to God.) Ugh.Ultimately, it was a funny, light-hearted movie that was spoiled by the amount of religious propaganda they shoved in there. I liked it, but I don't recommend it for non-Christians. It will only anger you.
__label__7 When Bruce Almighty was released to the public in 2003, I really laughed it out. The general idea of seeing Jim Carrey becoming God was really enjoyable to watch.So here is the sequel with Evan (Steve Carell, amazing) as the main character, who is now embracing the path of a congressman, is chosen by God (Morgan Freeman) to build an ark because another biblical flood is coming in.Let's be clear, Evan will not have superpowers like his previous workmate, Bruce Nolan, had the privilege to get rewarded to accomplish his mighty job. He is on his own with God on his side who is enjoying himself to turn Evan into Noah: His hair becomes longer, he is growing a long beard despite shaving continuously, he's even trading his nice political suit for a long shackled dress.During that time, Evan is trying to continue carrying on his job of congressman, provoking more and more disbelief from his fellow workmates and staff while his appearance is changing. At the end he is taken for a nut and a laughing stock by the general population and journalists who are watching him building the Ark. But at the end of the movie, the flood (which was much less disastrous as the Biblical one) finally happens, prompting Evan to let all his detractors to enter the ark saving them and as a result, is celebrated like he deserves to be.What is lacking in this script is the general craziness and freedom Jim Carrey enjoyed in Bruce Almighty. Seeing him torturing and playing with the people around him by using his Mighty powers was the most enjoyable thing to see in the first movie. Unfortunately in this sequel, Steve Carell doesn't enjoy the same level of creating freedom. That's the biggest regret of this movie. Maybe if the huge comic potential of Steve Carell would have been better employed, this movie would have had another impact on the audience.
__label__7 Awesome, original and creative movie. Great action, awesome looking aliens, it was intense and had some BEASTLY scenes. Great acting and good character depth. (2 viewings)
SPOILERS
I was not a huge fan of the ending. At first I thought it made no sense that he was able to reset even farther back in time than all prior resets. And also that what happened to the Omega would still apply but the humans get reset back to life. After reading some stuff online I found out that the reason he was reset to an earlier time is because the final battle happened the night before the beach invasion from when he got his original powers and timeline. I am also okay with the possible explanation that when the Alpha dies the Omega resets, but when the Omega dies it stays dead while still giving off one last reset. I now understand it better and it makes sense for the most part but still not entirely. And it just seemed like a conveniently happy ending when I thought him sacrificing himself would have been an awesome ending and a good completion to his character arch.Here is something I read on screenrant that explains everything I am saying perfectly:"There is not one clear-cut explanation for how the final reset could start hours earlier and incorporate the destruction of the mimics, but leave every other variable unchanged. Time travel logic is always a can of worms, meaning that viewers should have no problem coming up with their own ways of explaining the ending. Still, based on the limited information within the film, the end result is a paradox - one that ultimately provides the audience with a (semi-)happy ending at the expense of a more straightforward story of sacrifice that fits within the previously established rules"
__label__7 I want the Costner bashers to sit down and watch "Rebirth of the Mothra III" on Sci-Fi Channel some time. Then they'll know that they have seen the worst movie ever made."Waterworld" is an escapist fantasy/action picture, not unlike the James Bond and Indiana Jones pictures. Costner's performance works on exactly the same level as the Connery/Moore/Brosnan portrayals of 007 and Harrison Ford's portrayal of Indy -- straightforward, grim, stoic, a little mean-spirited, a little cruel, unafraid of dirt, grime, death, or salt water.It's not perfect by any means. I'm sure Costner hacked it to pieces in order to accommodate the two-hour-running-time maxim imposed by the studio, so that corporate could get their investment back. Now is the time for the extended DVD version; maybe that will explain where all those cigarettes came from, and how the Smokers converted raw crude into gasoline.7 out of 10. Costner bashers should get over themselves and start giving Michael Bay and George Lucas what they deserve.
__label__7 I just had to disagree with the first guy who thought it was simply awful. This is a big budget movie and it looks it. There are a number of metaphors going on in this story - maybe too many. But it really has a MaxMax on the Water feel to it. It's actually pretty fun and like the Mad Max movies - doesn't take itself too seriously.This was one of those movies that just got creamed by the press because they get very upset when movies cost a lot and in their minds - too much.Also - Costner was becoming a very big star - and the press loves to buildup stars and once their huge, they love to tear them down. This was a tear down.Heaven's Gate wasn't awful - but just too slow. This movie isn't awful either, and neither is it slow. And if you're a motorhead - its extra fun. Dennis Hopper chews up the scenery like a famished dinosaur and he's so much fun he makes Kevin's character look a little under-written.
__label__7 This is an unpopular movie, and I don't see why it is so. Admittedly, it is unbelievable, but so are James Bond films. There was enough action in this one to keep thriller buffs going all the way through. Costner did a good job portraying a lonely vagabond in a crazy, violent world. Dennis Hopper, as usual, was an effective villain; he kept me laughing all the way with his insane antics, and his stupid henchmen. I have to wonder, however, if the full nude shot of the girl was really the actress I had been watching. With clothes on, she didn't look all that well endowed. Not a bad movie, really.
__label__7 Ok, it was a financial disaster. So what? The film itself may have a few too many cliches but is not bad; I'd say it is actually very enjoyable for sci-fi fans.
__label__7 If you're looking for something to satisfy that Mad Max tooth, this will definitely be the film you're looking for. Although it hasn't aged well making it not as graphically pristine as up to date cgi, the film carries loads of practical effects proving it's intricate worth. Sometimes it feels a bit empty but what can we expect from a world that has been covered up by water leaving sparseness. Everything is brilliant in this film from set design to the acting. The makeup is a little shoddy and the sound is very average with a backup for an ordinary adventure soundtrack but overall it is worth the watch!
__label__7 I just saw G.I. Joe, and I must say that I actually enjoyed it. This is NOT a masterpiece. This is a fun, Summer action flick. The so-called professional critics who obviously miss that point do not deserve their cushy jobs. The action is unbelievable, non-stop, breathless, and requires a total suspension of disbelief. The critics that have a problem with that should remember one thing. This is a movie based on a cartoon that's sole purpose was to sell a set of toys to 5-12 year old boys. Nothing more. Expecting "War and Peace" from this source material shows a lack of insight and intelligence from most of the reviews that I have read. If you like action films, you will enjoy this one. If you want angst-ridden characters stopping every five minutes to discuss their feelings... pull the stick out and move along to a sappy low-budget romance; this isn't your kind of film.
__label__7 I watched this film last night and luckily I had no high expectations. As a fan of the G.I Joe toys when I was a kid (back then they where called Action Force) I had a good idea of the characters and story before hand. I am glad to say this film stayed true to most of the original concepts with a few tweaks for the better here and there.Go see this film if you want to see a fun action film full of special effects and doesn't take itself too seriously.Don't go and see this film if you are an uptight, unhappy film critic that spends too much time highlighting plot holes and acting because that's not what this film is about. It's more of a roller-coaster ride. Fast, furious and just fun.
__label__7 Let me first say that I knew absolutely nothing about the GI Joe franchise except that they were (are?) toys. But that did not hinder me from enjoying this movie.What do you get if you mix a few parts James Bond, a few parts Transformers and a few parts Star Wars? Well, you get G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra! Basically, if you like the aforementioned movies you will probably enjoy this one. Things explode constantly, shiny things glimmer past the screen and hot chicks in tight outfits show up now and then.If you are the type who crave realism in your movies then do not - I repeat, do not see this one. Realism does not even come within shooting distance of this movie. But if you can enjoy a popcorn summer movie then this is not a bad way to spend an afternoon.And yes - there is a Wayans brother in this, but strangely enough, he did not annoy me...
__label__7 Please, take note that I rated this film 8 only because of it's value as an action film, but that's exactly the point I came here to get across. Everybody seems to have the same argument when they trash this film.. "it's all effects and no brains or dramatic undertones". OK, that is true, I've got to admit, but then again what kind of movie were these people actually expecting to see? Huh?! G.I. Joe is as pure as an action film can possibly be and most importantly, it doesn't pretend to be anything else. Look at the poster. Check out the trailer. After those, were you perhaps waiting to see an Ingmar Bergman film? IT'S G.I. JOE, for Christ's sake! And I must say that in it's category, it isn't that bad. Sommers can direct good action sequences (the pursuit on the streets of Paris is stunning!) and although the film is obviously overblown with ridiculous gadgets and over the top plot lines, it doesn't matter because Joe succeeds in it's ONLY primary mission: to be entertaining. It's never boring and it's the silly fun it was always going to be.So in a nutshell.. if you want a serious film to watch, check out There Will Be Blood or Doubt, but if you just want to forget for two hours the mess your leaders have left your nation, nay, the *world* and just have fun, check out this action film. Thank you.
__label__7 I have to confess I'm not much of a G.I. Joe fan when I was a kid, partly because the other Hasbro product in transforming robots had more appeal to a boy than a bunch of plastic figures in military garb. The cartoon series too didn't convert me either, as it was up against a whole host of classic series from MASK to Silverhawks, Centurion to Starcomm. Ahh, the wonderful 80s to be growing up...So while I do not hold G.I Joe in as high a regard as Transformers, between the two films this summer based on the Hasbro toys, I will unabashedly proclaim that G.I. Joe triumphs over the other by a long mile. Michael Bay in his second robot outing has proved to be a two-trick pony, relying on countless of larger than large explosions - hardly a frame passes by without being engulfed in an inferno - and of course, Ms Fox's bouncing assets in slow motion. While one can afford to leave one's brains at the door for popcorn flicks such as these, Bay had forgotten than they have to be basically fun to watch, and magically he had dumbed Transformers down to a mind-numbing bore.Enter Stephen Sommers, who had a couple of box office successes with the action-adventure genre in The Mummy movies, so this guy obviously knows what he's doing, and it shows. Forget the excuse of a story just to link up the big set action pieces, and it is precisely in the action that Sommers understood when to show restraint, add in a dash of humour, pepper it with proper camera angles, though of course still unable to buckle the trend of slowing things down just before any impact. Slow motion unfortunately is here to stay I guess.There are obviously some updates to this big budgeted flick, that while it's still a military- type based movie per se, some common sensibilities have crept in. No more are the soldiers "Real American" heroes (though that iconic phrase still managed a mention), and a more inclusive (but still token in a way) United Nations type best-of-the-best elite troopers get invited to this highly classified unit blessed with unlimited budget for high tech weapons and toys. Unlike Bay's invasion-and-conquer type of US troopers, these guys do get arrested after they unleash their weapons of mass destruction, diplomatic immunity not withstanding afterwards. And of course having futuristic toys help to lift this into fantasy-land, than an all out US Military commercial selling the virtues of why Uncle Sam needs you.Sommers also managed to blend in the myriad of characters from the beloved toy lines and series, akin to what Bryan Singer managed to pull off with X-Men, but of course without the cerebral material to go along. Everything here is plain and simple, with black being black and white being white. It doesn't get bogged down with trying to tell the origin stories of everyone, but does so at precise intervals. I suspect if there was going to be more movies, then the case dossiers of the Joes would get their respective air time.Otherwise, like the subtitle mentioned, it's more of a bad guys take all film, where surprisingly the Joes always a step behind, from the first action sequence until the last. It was smart too that the film had action over land, sea and air, covering a wide range of military operations to mop up a growing conspiracy involving arms dealers and nano- technology that doesn't seem to far fetched (in fact also seen before in other science fiction films). The best part of course is echoing some sentiments whenever opportunity allows in lambasting a superpower's policies, including a subtle jibe that most of the world's terrorist type problems, stem from ineptness and how the monster came to grow from within.G.I. Joe was much better than expected as pure entertainment, and you really shouldn't give this a miss as it might just restore your faith in big-action summer popcorn flicks that takes a huge leaf out of their cartoon counterparts. A bevy of good looking, established stars in its casting also helped in making this watchable, even though some, like Ray Park, had to spend all his time behind a mask. See if you can spot an uncredited Brandan Fraser as well!
__label__7 There's RDJ and his immeasurable charisma, there's Rockwell and Rourke rocking their lines, there's classy Paltrow and shallow ScarJo (bait for the horny nerds), there's good action.. and yet, something's missing. Don't get me wrong: this movie is FUN, from beginning to end. Too much talking? No way. Not enough action? Maybe, but there's plenty (2 fights, 1 'friend ruckus'). But the thread that ties it all together don't seem to be that strong (I blame it on Theroux). Anyway, go see it, you won't regret. One more thing: don't believe people telling that this movie talks way too much about the Avengers: a few bits here and there is not too much. And stay for the after-credits scene.
__label__7 At its high points - the first act and the climax - Iron Man 2 is actually better than the first film. Everything up to and including the action scene in Monaco is just great fun to watch: the action, the character interactions, and of course Robert Downey Jr's wonderful portrayal of Tony Stark. And the action scene at the end is pretty epic.The problem is, the film just stops being so much fun in-between. In a large proportion of this time, it's either going too slowly with little happening that's exciting or even particularly interesting, or it's providing some silly moments like Iron Man lounging on a giant display donut. To be fair, there's no problem with the many subplots this movie has: they all blend together quite smoothly.The acting in this film deserves credit: almost everybody does a great job. Robert Downey Jr and Gwyneth Paltrow are just as entertaining as they were in the first film, Jon Favreau gets more to do as Stark's chauffeur, Don Cheadle is actually a little better than Terrence Howard as Rhodie (again, maybe because he has a bigger role), Mickey Rourke portrays a decent but overall ordinary villain, and once Scarlett Johansson is allowed to do something substantial with her own action sequence, she's well worth watching. The only weak link is Sam Rockwell as Justin Hammer, who gets quite annoying after a while.Overall, Iron Man 2's slow middle section prevents it from being better than the first film as a whole, which is a shame considering how brilliant the beginning and end segments are.
__label__7 Jon Favreau knew exactly what he was doing with this movie. This is a sleek, no-holds barred superhero movie, with great performances from Robert Downey Jr. and Mickey Rourke. Let's face it, it was almost impossible to top the first one; nevertheless this a good sequel to one of the best superhero movies ever made. Scarlett Johansson fulfilled her role as the the sexy and cunning agent Natasha Romanoff, and Gwyneth Paltrow is fine as Pepper Potts. Sam Rockwell plays Tony Stark's competitor, and does a pretty good job at it.The only problem I have with this movie is that too many things have been fitted into 124 minutes. I understand that the movie was meant to be a roller-coaster ride, intended to thrill, but a little more character development would certainly have helped the movie. For example Samuel L. Jackson ans Johansson's characters are underused. Also, the ending was a little disoriented and predictable; something just didn't feel right about it.All in all, Jon Favreau has made a movie that would please the fanboys and satisfy the critics. This is a movie that entertains, while still complementing the first movie, and setting up a third movie. If you liked the first movie, just go ahead and watch this movie - you won't see a masterpiece, but you'll have a fun day at the movies.P.S.- Watch out for the after credits scene
__label__7 At first, when a heard about a second installment, i thought, i was unsure in it, because Jon Favreau is relatively new on the director's chair, so could he pull of another classic superhero movie?The answer is simple-YES! I saw it in its opening day and the theatre was full.I went along with a few friends, and all of them loved it!Here are some things, we all agreed we liked.CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT:It was pretty good in this movie-making aspect, although it is an action movie, there is some quite exciting development, especially the leads.Don Cheadle made a perfect substitute of Terrence Howard, and looked pretty good in the movie.So did the Gwyneth Paltrow and Scarlet Johansson's heroines.For me, Scarlet is one of the most gifted and talented and in the same time, the most beautiful actresses in the last decade and even more.And last, but not least, of course, the Iron Robert Downey Jr., making one of his unique, specifically for him, roles.He is smart, funny and in the same time, well, action hero type of guy-he adds so much to this otherwise, stereotyped role.Sam Rockwell was a little irritating, but that's what his role is supposed to be, and to those who have doubts, yes, Mickey Rourke made a decent and interesting role again.TIMING:Almost perfect, except, maybe, the opening credits and a few over timed scenes afterwards, everything was alright and on the perfect spot.PLOT/STORY:I finally can say it-YES, the day has come.A day, where superhero movies haven't got just CGI, put a pretty decent story, attached to the normal amount of CGI.Well, hard to say normal, a little bit over-the-top, but nonetheless fun, when you get use to the headache.The humor was perfect, brilliantly touched to the smallest line.And most importantly-it's not that predictable-i don't mean the ending, but the development, leading to it.Excecutet skilfully, when looked from this point of view.CGI:10/10, nothing else to add.Believable Flawless.Perfect.With no big flaws or plot holes, very funny dialogue, skillful acting and good directing, Iron Man is definitely the best movie of the year so far.The perfect blockbuster as well.I'm glad a saw it, and if the first one didn't made me a fan, this one did.I can't wait to see it again.Cheers to Iron Man Amazing! I would've given this a ten, but with some very few weaknesses, i'll lower this a little, although it did make me a bigger fan than before...My rate: 7.5/10
__label__7 The new Iron Man sequel has attracted quite a bit of hype. Most of us were surprised back in 2008 that the first film had turned out not only bearable but pretty solid. The first film had walked the line between serious origin story and self-spoofing comic book comedy. The new film does the same and walks the delicate line between tension and comedic relief just as well as its predecessor.Downey Jr. is back as Tony Stark one of the first super-heroes to forgo a secret identity. This eliminates what I feel is one of the weakest gimmicks of the superhero genre, the secret identity to "protect your loved ones". Ever notice how Peter Parker doesn't want to tell MJ who he is because she'd be in danger BUT she ends up in danger anyway? Same for Lois Lane or Rachel Dawes in Nolan's batman films. Iron Man doesn't bother with the secret identity and the story is better off for it. Instead the film focuses on the actual character of Tony Stark, including the character flaws he is known for and his relationship with his Father.The plot is really about the "Sins of the Father" passing on to the son. The Father of the film's villain has been wronged by Stark's Father and this leads to a high-tech revenge story. The acting is okay although I felt the script, at times, gave the actors little to work with. Even in the scenes that were fizzling out into boredom a joke or two would be thrown in to spice things up and reengage the audience. Whoever they had treat the script did a bang up job with quips, innuendos, gags and one-liners a plenty. These corny quips would be out of place in most movies but in a summer comic book blockbuster they are a MUST.Cheadle takes over from Terrence Howard as Colonel James Rhodes and while I feel he lacks the charisma Howard exuded in the first film he still does a solid job as Tony's new sidekick. The film also goes deeper into Tony's involvement with SHIELD, the legendary organization that will eventually set up the AVENGERS. Scarlett Johansson also does well in her role though honestly her beauty leaped off the IMAX screen so much I could barely concentrate on her dialogue when she was on screen.All in all the plot clips along nicely, never dwelling on the boring for too long but not letting the fast pace of the film take away from telling a good story. The Special Effects are incredible of course and some of the action scenes had the audience I saw the film with applauding. I feel the film lives up to its predecessor in almost every way and is easily worth an 8 out of 10. A solid superhero movie. I hope to see more of Iron Man on the big screen.Also, stay after the credits for a mini-sneak peak of one of the next super-heroes to get his own movie.
__label__7 Based on the popular fairytale ''Snow White'' comes the originally titled ''Snow White....and The Huntsman'' ,an epic fantasy film starring teen favourites Kristen Stewart (of Twilight fame) and Chris Hemsworth (of Thor/Avengers fame). Now, detailing the plot shouldn't be too hard, as we all know the story from childhood- Evil Queen (Charlize Theron) with talking mirror is hell-bent on killing her 'pure' step-daughter (Stewart) and hires a Huntsman (Hemsworth) to do the job for her. The Huntsman takes pity on the girl when he finds her, and together they become fugitives, going on a journey that involves meeting Dwarfs. Seven of them to be precise. What follows is a major battle between good and evil to determine who will reign over the Kingdom, the evil Queen or our heroine Snow White?Now, I enjoyed this film a lot more than I thought I would, it reminded me a lot of Lord of The Rings, from the grand music to the mountain scenery, and it does feature a few spectacular fight scenes. Visually, this is an impressive film, however, the film focuses too much on visuals and not enough on characters, the Dwarfs are glossed over and never really given any time to engage with the audience, which is a shame, as the group contains excellent actors (Ray Winstone and Bob Hoskins, amongst others ). Kristen Stewart as Snow White seems to think she's still playing Bella from Twilight, (i.e no range of emotions, just a blank stare for the whole film), especially when opposite to her is Charlize Theron giving an amazingly dramatic performance as the Queen. To sum up, a good re-telling of a classic, but by no means as good as the Disney Classic which most of us remember.7/10
__label__7 Review: I really thought that this was going to be a typical Disney movie about fairies and magic dust, but I really enjoyed it. Although the storyline is based around Sleeping Beauty, I found it quite dark with some adult content. The CGI throughout the movie looked impressive and Angelina Jolie played her part extremely well. After being betrayed by her loved one, she turns quite evil and full of hate, but once Aurora comes into the picture, you get to see an inner sweetness which made her character entertaining and a joy to watch. Pieced together with Sharlto Copley playing the villain, this movie really did have every aspect covered and I'm not surprised that it made so much money at the box office. A Great Watch!Round-Up: Angelina Jolie really doesn't make that many movies anymore, but when she comes out of the woodwork, she really does come out with some good movies. From Changeling to the action packed Wanted, she really does have a versatile acting ethic and with all of her charitable work and her hectic family life, I'm not surprised that making movies is low down on her priority list. I liked the chemistry between her character and Sam Riley, who played the crow, and the action scenes were very well thought out by the director. Personally, I don't think that it's a movie for the young ones because there are some scenes that will give them nightmares, but there are some scenes they will enjoy, like her magical land and the amazing creatures. In all, I'm surprised that I enjoyed the movie because I really wasn't expecting something so dark.Budget: $180million Worldwide Gross: $757million (WOW!)I recommend this movie to people who are into there Disney movies which are based on the concept of Cinderella. 7/10
__label__7 Humans generally have a superiority complex that makes them often consider all other forms of life as inadequate. Civilization has exemplified the mass exploitation and selfishness humans are capable of in the past, and present, on numerous occasions. The Planet of the Apes series delves on this complex. It displays the vulnerabilities of the human race and how nothing is to be underestimated.Dawn of the Planet of the Apes will surely entertain. As the sequel to the last instalment, we follow Caesar in his new habitat following the human pandemic instigated by the Simian influenza. In a world where the human population is depleted and infrastructure collapsed, society is broken apart and in a fragile state. With stubborn and selfish humans, the fate of humanity does not rest in good hands. Watching this film, I cannot say there ever was a moment of dullness nor boredom. Though, for me, there was nothing exceptional about it. The plot is one that we have come to expect and the CGI was certainly state of the art. Putting this aside, it is the story of Caesar and the strive for freedom of all that captures this movie's true essence. Empathizing with these intelligent beings no longer being the tools of humans is one to both support and fear. It is this unique mixture of elements that make Dawn of the Planet of the Apes so touching yet stimulating.This is a movie I'd recommend all to see since it offers a perspective many contemporary films fail to produce.
__label__7 First of all this film was beautifully done, it deserves the stars given. The music, the cinematography, and the acting were all done well (aside from a few minor and unnecessary scenes by supporting roles).The main disappointment with the story was the past and present coming together in a more fluid and fulfilling fashion. This is where the entire film seems to fault and lose a good deal of satisfaction. The story involves lovers in the past and lovers in the future. In the past the lovers only share a brief time together amidst much conflict. Their fate seems to be sealed from the beginning by visions of betrayal, death and a unique set of rings that intertwine into one ring. Many issues with the story arise in the transition of past to present and the meaning of the rings. Some questions seem to go unanswered if not viewed carefully. Having read some reviews it seems viewers overlook important details due to rapid scene changes and a constant search for significance. For example, it's easy to completely miss the explanation of how one half of the ring comes to rest at the bottom of the ocean in a metal snap purse with the initials D.E. engraved on it. The answer is actually mid story. The character named Dolly, played by Alice Englert, actually holds the purse in her hands while the camera quickly closes in for a brief closeup. There are the initials and the one hint that gets sadly overlooked because it seems unimportant at the time. But this hint is crucial for understanding how half of the ring is discovered in the future. There is also a bit of confusion regarding the rings. Initially they seem to relate to love that cannot be fulfilled due to the cursed nature of the visions shared by Tulaja, the lover from the past who is played by Bipasha Basu. At first the rings seem to betray the lovers. Later in the story the combined rings seem to bring good fortune due to their mystical powers which are never clearly explained. Granted in the end it seems the rings symbolize the complexity of love, at times difficult, binding and powerful. But the problem for most viewers may not be in the rings themselves or their meaning. The greatest conflict within the story seems to surround the fact that the characters played by Josh Hartnett both in the past and future don't end up loving the same woman. If the lovers were the same people throughout the entire time line the film may have received a better reception. As another reviewer mentioned, The Fountain (starring Hugh Jackman and Rachel Weisz), also explored a love across time. This story had a sense of closure and satisfaction because the lovers were the same in the past, present and future. The characters in that film came full circle. In The Lovers, they sadly do not reunite the way most wish them to. The female lover from the past appears in the distant future in a recognizable form only to give the other half of the ring to another woman who is in love with the possibly reincarnated version of her past lover. This creates a considerable amount of conflict. It leaves one wondering why one lover finds happiness and the other can't. Will he one day bring half of a ring to her future reincarnation to allow her the same happiness with another? One will never know. It's a very unselfish interpretation of love, which is why most people won't enjoy that outcome. Everyone wants the two lovers from the past to find each other in the end. That apparently wasn't the point. It's not hard to imagine that the writer's intention was to express that love, which can transcend time, will wait its turn. It's just not as satisfying for the general public who are used to two hour films with happy endings. This story bends the rules but it's done lovingly. Although I was left wanting closure I appreciated the attention to quality and wouldn't regard it a bad film because it didn't end the way I wanted it to. It was also nice to see Harnett again.
__label__7 This review is meant only to emphasize that current rate (4.5) is not at all fair in my opinion, and here are the reasons behind my statement: 1. Very good playing, all actors made me feel like the story was real. 2. Good plot, it may have been presented as rather being sci-fi but time factor in this movie is like the backbone of a living person: not in plain sight but yet it holds the whole body up, too much science would have been altering the story, which is beautiful by appearing as being simple, though not simple at all, the very end proves it. 3. It is, in my humble opinion, one of the most inspired attempts to capture the timeless feature of love. And it's supreme quality of being unconditional. Instead of conclusion, for those in search of a more scientific movie, challenging their minds with riddles and special effects I would suggest to look for something else since this one is about The Lovers (much more suggestive title) seeking to find peace beyond the limits of time. Tip: Watching this movie without expectations is the best way to enjoy it.
__label__7 Why do humans go to movies? Perhaps to be film critics but the there is a critic for every phase of life it seems.When I watch a movie I immerse myself in it while watching enjoying the effortThis creation has incredible music and scenery and while immersed I did enjoy it.After I did think the linking of the two time lines was a bit weak, most likely the creation of the editing. Overall watch a movie not to be be Roger Ebert, that guy has not enjoyed a movie since he was diapers, but to enjoy the story let your mind fill in the blanksThere are an exceptional amount of critics and not enough individuals who enjoy a storyTurn off the world and enjoy this movie the short comings fade into the storyI did enjoy it and it will soon leave my memory because it is fantasyThe key word here is FANTASY its make believe something I do think many fail to notice ;)
__label__7 47 Ronin is a highly fictionalized take on the story of the 47 ronin who took revenge on a court official who had the 47's leader commit seppuku. In the film, Keanu Reeves portrays Kai, a half-British Half-Japanese outcast who is called upon by Oishi, the leader of the 47. The 47 seek revenge on Lord Kira, who also has an evil witch (Rinko Kikuchi) serving under him, who killed their master.The movie itself looks absolutely phenomenal, with amazing visual effects, an emotional and gripping musical score, and strong performances from Keanu and Hiroyuki Sanada, who portrays Oishi. The major problem that i saw with the movie was that, it was over way too fast. They left out important character development for the witch and a few other characters, which really could have added more emotional flame to the film. Plus, the movie overall could have easily been twenty, thirty minutes longer. If it were, i would say it can rank alongside 13 Assassins and The Last Samurai. The script was well-written in terms of dialogue (some cheesy lines), but the overall script was devoid of real depth and thought. Then, Carl Erik Rinsch's directing was actually pretty good, but had a few too many cut-aways.47 Ronin is an extremely action-packed samurai/fantasy epic that is something you don't want to miss on the big-screen (for a cheap price). Though, if you want to see something award-worthy in terms of writing and directing, hope for a Director's/Extended cut on disc, for you won't find it here. But great performances, visual effects and emotion really help make this movie stand out, even with The Desolation of Smaug as competition.
__label__7 In Ako, Lord Asano (Min Tanaka) and his samurai Ôishi (Hiroyuki Sanada) are hunting in the forest and they find a half-breed boy. Lord Asano brings him to Ako and the boy that is named Kai is raised with his daughter Mika. Years later, Mika (Kô Shibasaki) and Kai (Keanu Reeves) are secretly in love with each other. Lord Asano welcomes the Shogun Tsunayoshi (Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa) and the Lord Kira (Tadanobu Asano) at home. However, Kira's Witch (Rinko Kikuchi) casts a spell on Lord Asano and he tries to kill Kira. The Shogun sentences Lord Asano to death and offers the option of committing Harakiri to die with honor. Ôishi and his samurais become ronin and he is arrested in a hole; and Kai is sold as a slave in another village. One year later, Ôishi is released from the imprisonment and he plots a scheme to revenge Lord Asano with Kai and the other ronin."47 Ronin" is an entertaining fantasy based on the classic Japanese story. Despite the Western behaviors and feelings of the ronin and Mika, the movie is not bad as indicated in many reviews. Actually I have had a nice surprise. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "47 Ronins" ("47 Ronin")
__label__7 47 Ronin was much better than I thought it would be. I really enjoyed it, and I don't understand all the very negative reviews. The movie was entertaining and had a good mix of story, action, and beautiful scenery & costumes. The movie runs about 2 hours that seemed to go by quickly. Sure, there were some things that could have been done better, such as Keanu Reeves acting, and several characters that would have benefited by additional development. One of the frustrating things is that the movie had the potential to be great had they hit the mark. But overall it was worth my investment of time and money, and I would definitely recommend this movie.
__label__7 47 Ronin is a film reimagining of a popular Japanese folktale that is stuck inside its mythic contraptions. Everybody is an archetype, as opposed to a character. Love, hate or brotherhood between characters is assumed rather than shown through character development. The story starts and ends with an unknown narrator, who tells the story as if we were all listening to a old tale by a campfire. The end result is that it places a distance between the story and the audience. It is as if the story itself is matted on a frame, and we are just looking at it in a gallery with a curator recounting the story as opposed to the viewer experiencing the story from a first-person perspective.Keanu Reeves is not the problem here. There is no room here to critique about woodiness as there wasn't enough for him to do. He is casted here for marketing reasons and it really shows. Reeves' character is sidelined by Hiroyuki Sanada, who plays the leader of the Ronin. Sanada carries the film with his powerful presence; you really do believe he can really hurt someone with a sword. He has long been the go-to guy for American-Japanese co-productions and it's finally nice to see him in a central role. Tadanobu Asano also shows up to chew some scenery as the villain and adds a depth that wasn't on the page. My fingers are still crossed he will play Genghis Khan again in a sequel to Mongul.Hearing the film opened poorly in Japan is unfortunate. Perhaps it is uncomfortable for the Japanese to see their own folktale retold in a foreign production. I have bulked at my fair share of Hollywood misrepresentations of Chinese culture, and evidently there is a sufficient amount of Orientalism in the film. Though the fantasy elements and the production design are so extreme it plays closer to a graphic novel. The more I think about why the fantasy elements were added, the more it seems like it is there to justify the casting of Keanu Reeves as a half- Caucasian half-Japanese outsider amongst an entire cast of Japanese actors. I can't help but imagine what a more realistic telling of this story would have been like as the Japanese cultural elements and Samurai politics were more interesting than the magic and mythic beasts.To sum it all up, 47 Ronin is a fantasy graphic novel style adaptation of a Japanese folktale released in December. Perhaps it is not exactly the most festive way to start the new year with all the beheadings and Samurai ritual suicide. The story also takes a long time to get set up, which asks for a lot of patience on the viewer's part. The ideal crowd would have been overseas anime geeks who are fascinated with Japanese pop culture, and perhaps for that, the film may have fared better if it was released in the March-April slot. That all said, even with its flaws and supposed qualifiers, 47 Ronin accomplishes what it sets out to do. It's just not for everybody.
__label__7 I saw "Shrek Forever After" on special screenings and I really hoped it would live up to the first 2 films. But at the end of the day, it wasn't as good or magical. I kind of felt disappointed because even though the Third Installment was bad I was hoping they went back and recognize their mistakes. But this movie does have its strong points, it was quite funny and entertaining. There were moments in there that felt like the first two films, and overall it is a very enjoyable ride that even though it doesn't live quite up to the first two films. It is worth your money just to have fun with it.7.2/10 I'd recommend people to see this film, but don't go in it with HIGH expectations.
__label__7 Almost a decade ago, the film Shrek left many people amazed (including me) with its extraordinary animation and a hilarious parody of some famous fairy-tales (specially the Disney interpretations of them), without neglecting the creation of memorable characters and honest emotions.Shrek 2 was also excellent, but it was a bit below the level from the first film.Then, in 2007, Shrek the Third was a desperate attempt to have the magic from the first two films; the result was mediocre, and a big declination from the first two films.Now, we have Shrek Forever After, and even though it is far from reaching the level from Shrek 1 and 2, it kept me entertained, and I think it represents an improvement on the third film.What I mostly liked from Shrek Forever After is that screenwriters Josh Klausner and Darren Lemke followed the evolution from Shrek in a natural way.In the first film, we saw the change in Shrek's life when he first fell in love; in the second one, he had to face the responsibilities from adult life; in the third one, he faced the insecurities of the paternity; and now, the ogre feels overwhelmed by the family routine and he misses the liberty from his youth, which is a subject that is a bit more mature to what we are accustomed to see on an animated film.However, I found various fails in Shrek Forever After, specially in the fact that the screenplay is not very ingenious.Its handling of the humor keeps being based on songs, characters and events from popular culture, but that does not feel as fresh and irreverent as it had felt on the first Shrek; in fact it feels a bit tiring now, because of the large number of animated films which have used that strategy.However, there are good moments of humor in the interaction between the characters; I particularly liked the character of Puss in Boots; most of the laughs I had while watching this movie came from that character.Good work, Antonio Banderas.Unfortunately, I cannot say the same about Eddie Murphy, one of my favorite comedians, whose contribution to the other movies had been among the best elements from them.However, I felt his voice acting in Shrek Forever After to be forced and listless.The rest of the cast made a decent work, but nobody particularly stood out.But the whole experience from Shrek Forever After is not highly memorable, and one of the best things I can say about it is that it avoided to fall into some irritating mistakes from the third film (even though that does not exempt it to have its own fails).However, I think I can recommend Shrek Forever After because it kept me entertained...however, it is very far away from reaching the magic from the first two films.
__label__7 The final chapter in the SHREK series recalls that familiar term "Be careful what you with for". I too was careful at what I wished SHREK FOREVER AFTER would be. After the disappointing SHREK THE THIRD, the bar isn't set high for this supposedly final chapter. It's never going to compare with the superior first two, but if Dreamworks Animation really wanted to conclude their beloved property with this, they might as well give it all that it has. SHREK FOREVER AFTER, while certainly more elaborate than its immediate predecessor, is not the most original of the series, but if this is really a happily ever after for Shrek, at least he went out on a good note rather than a disappointing one.The story is basically IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE with Shrek (voiced by Mike Myers) trading places with George Bailey. Shrek's life couldn't be better: he has his loving wife Fiona (voiced by Cameron Diaz) and three kids, best buddies Donkey (Eddie Murphy) and Puss (Antonio Banderas) are current visitors, he's got his swamp back, and above all his days as the flesh-eating ogre are way behind him. But everyday of the same day-to-day rituals can get too routine for our big green ogre. If only he could wish he could be that flesh-eating ogre again! His wish is granted when he meets the crafty Rumpelstiltskin (voiced by Walt Dohrn), but it at a terrible catch. Before you can say "Happily Ever After no more!", Shrek is trapped in a depressing alternate universe where he was never born and none of his pals know who he is.The real treat of the premise of FOREVER AFTER is that it gives us a chance to warm up with these characters again and recall why we loved them in the first place, and then find out a few new reasons to like them all over again. We already know these characters and we have met them before, and this might just serve as a reunion after the occasional slog of the previous follow-up. Unlike its immediate predecessor as well, this one actual has a storyline instead of the simple premise to be used to hang pop culture reference and in-jokes. It's not a great storyline and certainly not anything original, but it's a step on the right direction. Director Mike Mitchell has at least put Shrek right back on track, and not a moment too soon. If this is really the series' finale, the creators have at least done a credible job at reminding us of the appeal that these characters. In a way, SHREK FOREVER AFTER is a satisfying conclusion, if not a grand one.Rating: ***1/2 out of 5.
__label__7 Well it was bound to happen, most animation saga's or trilogy's end eventually and some better than others. With Shrek Forever After this is the case, still packed full of gags, funny moments and hilarious one liners its a good end to a fun enjoyable franchise. We all hoped it would also end this way, in a positive way as the last 11 years has been Shrek sequels some better than others. With this final adventure, old characters are reunited and new ones enter the fray.Plus we also get a fresh new setting for this latest and final tale, some good dialogue too and of course improved animation. Considering this was always gonna go up against Toy Story 3, we knew it would be a close fight for the throne of the summer blockbuster. Otherwise, however Shrek Forever After has done a good job of grabbing it for me until I see Toy Story 3, until then I believe this is the best animation summer blockbuster of the year.If you want quick gags, laughs and family fun Shrek Forever After is for you and also for fans of the franchise.
__label__7 When I found out that a fourth Shrek movie was being made, it made me frown because it seemed pretty needless, especially that the last movie was such a bore. But then again, if you take the storyline into consideration, this becomes a fitting final chapter to formally close the Shrek series. The movie is originally entitled SHREK FOREVER AFTER, but in other regions of the world including ours, it is entitled SHREK: THE FINAL CHAPTER, so it's obvious.First we go to the more unpleasant aspects; this movie works more as a fantasy-adventure movie rather than a comedy. That's because the humor factor of Shrek has gone old already. This movie seems to squeeze the very last drop of what is left of the Shrek series' dried out desert of humor. Sure, it may make us give out a chuckle here, a chuckle there, but this Shrek movie cannot make us laugh out loud anymore. When you look back at its title "Shrek the Final Chapter" you would realize that this movie does seem to apologize with the fact that this'll be the last and probably an admission that they could not squeeze any more decent thing out of the Shrek saga after this one; it's a final effort to make one last buck.On the other hand, Shrek's main story aspect is a little more interesting than its humor. As I said earlier, this movie is better as a fantasy adventure because we do get to see an alternate reality where Shrek is back into being an outcast Ogre and everybody else who was originally part of his circle of friends has not met him yet. Eventually, they get into an adventure wherein he must face a new enemy, a new problem, and he even gets to meet other ogres and an ogre resistance army that pretty much reminded me of Warcraft (the old-school Warcraft 2 to be exact). In this bizarro world, Donkey has not met him, Puss has become obese, and Fiona is the leader of the Ogre resistance. Shrek must go through this alternate universe and survive it before the day passes and a curse will consume him for good. Shrek gets to have some action with a horde of witches and must face the dragon once again. I could not say that the action was impressive but it has its little cool moments. I particularly loved the chain skull weapons that the witches use.In addition, this movie works also as a family domestic drama where it maturely deals with the simple family issue of boredom and being sick of how repetitious family life can be. I daresay that the film can work as a satire or perhaps a metaphor that some married men can learn from. There is one sequence in the movie that does capture this crisis; I am talking about the scenes where we see Shrek realize that despite the fact that he does live a happy life, it can get pretty dull and annoying at times, but then again that's life.Perhaps it becomes boring because many of us choose not to grow up; many of us choose to not let go of what our past lives were. That is what happens to Shrek in this movie. To escape the mediocrity of a family life, he wishes to relive the moments when he was still just a normal ogre again. And because of this, he puts his family life in jeopardy. Shrek 4's tale comes full circle in the sense that it questions if Shrek did have a "happily ever after" ending in the past three movies, and puts one last fantastic circumstance to let him live out a reality that this never happened.And lastly, Shrek 4's main potential lies in its romance. With an alternate reality story, Shrek faces a Fiona that has never met him. Therefore, Shrek must find out some way to make Fiona fall in love with him all over again. If you ask me, the romantic aspect of this movie is as innovative as the first Shrek movie, in ways that it tells mature subject matter in the guise of fantasy. The Fiona of the alternate reality mirrors the plight of women who gave up on romance, and one scene certainly negates the falsity of most fairy tales with a line that goes something like: "a mere kiss does not solve everything" It negates other fantasies like "Sleeping Beauty" or "Snow White" because it destroys the superficial aspect of those obsolete fairy tales with a more realistic approach, because indeed, a kiss is nothing if there is no true love that goes with it. In my opinion, Shrek 4 succeeds in this aspect.Shrek may not be the best movie this summer, or it might not be the funniest Shrek movie, but it certainly is one that is very rich story-wise. Just as his line in the first movie went "I have layers" and there certainly are deeper layers to this story rather than one that will just make you laugh. Of course, this works out as a great family movie, but it is certainly perfect for couples, most especially married couples, and parents alike. I give SHREK FOREVER AFTER a.k.a. SHREK: THE FINAL CHAPTER a Matinée rating for single serving; and a Full Price rating for family servings.
__label__7 The first Shrek was funny and original, and one of my favourites of its year. The first sequel was just as delightful and as charming, and while the third film wasn't as bad as I thought it would be it did suffer from being too tired and contrived. Shrek Forever After is an improvement on Shrek the Third while lacking the charm, heart and magic that was there clearly in the first two.Thankfully, the story is not as contrived as it was in the third film. I loved the idea and it did start off well, the "what would life be like if Shrek had never existed?" reminded me of one of my all-time favourites, It's a Wonderful Life. However, in the middle act it did have its predictable parts. The pace sags a bit too in the middle act particularly when there are parts that don't have as much humour as I would have liked. Also, while the animation was very good on the whole, I did feel that Rumplestiltskin's facial expressions were occasionally overdone and forced.Criticisms aside, the animation is very good, very colourful and lively with some nice backgrounds. The soundtrack is also great, while the jokes are fresher and wittier than the last one, Donkey getting the best of them. The characters are still likable, the pace is in general snappy and the writing is amusing. The voice acting is also top notch, not only from Mike Myers and Cameron Diaz who are rock-solid but especially from Eddie Murphy who seamlessly comes very close to stealing the film while Antonio Banderas makes a welcome return as Puss.Overall, not a classic but an improvement and an entertaining film. 7/10 Bethany Cox
__label__7 It's not really cool to like Dreamworks Animation anymore. Sure, they're not Pixar. Sure, they're too hung up on star power and pop culture references. But I've still enjoyed the majority their films more than I have a lot of what's out there. And I love the first two "Shrek" movies. Their funny, entertaining, terrifically animated, and, too me, some of the best animated love stories that have been made. Most fairy tale romances perpetuate the idea that love is for beautiful people (even the masterpiece "Beauty and the Beast" has it's cake and eats it too on this point), and Princes and Princesses are better than common people. "Shrek"'s idea of finding happiness in who you are was much more palatable to me. i found the first film a delight, and the second even better.But the third was only okay. The humor wasn't nearly as clever or funny, and the heart just wasn't there like it used to be. "Shrek Forever After" isn't as good as those first two. But it's a big step back in the right direction.The story begins with Shrek getting used to being a father. He loves Fiona and the kids, but he misses his old life as a menacing ogre. He's seen more as a lovable tourist attraction now, and he doesn't like it. So, he makes a deal with the mysterious Rumpletiltskin (surprisingly NOT voiced by a name actor) to get one day back in his old life. In exchange, he gives up one day from his past. A day from his childhood that he doesn't even remember.Unfortuntaely, that day turns out to be the day he was born, and this leads to an "It's a Wonderful Life" scenario where Shrek doesn't know Fiona, Donkey, Puss-in-Boots, or any of his friends, and Rumplestiltskin rules the Kingdom with a tiny iron fist. The resulting story is a great deal of fun, with Fiona now a warrior leading an ogre rebellion, the Gingerbread Man fighting as a gladiator against Animal Crackers, and so forth. The humor isn't back to it's highest heights, but there are a good number of genuine laughs. And the heart is back bigtime. I found "Shrek Forever After" surprisingly touching..Okay, it's not as good as "Toy Story 3" is likely to be, nor is it as good as "How to train your Dragon". but I had a blast with "Shrek Forver After" Evren Buyruk
__label__7 I really enjoyed the first "Shrek" film back in 2001 and was an even bigger fan of "Shrek 2," which came out just three short years later. Then "Shrek the Third" hit theaters and I couldn't believe what I was watching. Not only did the third film have a horrible story but the charm and wit of all the original characters was gone. I was actually angry that I paid money to see the third film and really didn't want anything to do with the "Shrek" franchise any longer. To my surprise even after hearing nothing but complaints about the third one, the final chapter of the Shrek saga was still being made. When I saw the trailer for "Shrek Ever After" I was less than impressed probably because I was still angry about the last film. Regardless of how I felt as well as many over movie lovers, "Shrek Ever After" was released into theaters just three weeks ago and received average reviews. This past weekend, I decided to go see the film with my girlfriend just to see how the final chapter ends..."Shrek Ever After" picks up right where "Shrek the Third" left off. Shrek and Fiona are now married with kids. They are the most respected and sought after family of Far Far Away and everyone in town loves them. One day after going through what seems to be a midlife crisis, Shrek becomes flustered and flips out at his kids birthday party. He makes a deal with Rumpelstiltskin to give him one day of his life in order for him to feel what it is like to be free again without having kids, a wife, and of course being respected instead of feared. This is where the plot thickens as Rumpelstiltskin tricks Shrek into signing the contract that states he has never been born. The only way to break this contract is to make Fiona, who has no clue who Shrek is, fall in love with him all over again.As soon as the credits began to roll, my first response was that wasn't too bad. Given the fact that "Shrek the Third" was a slap in the face to the Shrek franchise, I was somewhat impressed with the final entry. I wouldn't say I was blown away with it but it was like a masterpiece compared to the third film. The character Rumpelstiltskin was actually a fun character and I liked his personality. That was one of the main things that really made the film work especially since Prince Charming in the last film was such a boring and uninteresting character. I also thought the whole reliving the earlier chapters of Shrek's life worked well and I liked what they did with Fiona in this film. They made her a much tougher character. Then of course last but not least Puss in Boots, who is the best character in all the films.Even though I enjoyed this film, I have to admit I am glad this was the final chapter because I can't see this franchise surviving another film. While the storyline about the midlife crisis and appreciating what you have was good especially for this type of film, it just seemed like the writers were pushing it a bit. I don't know exactly why it seemed that way but I guess its just that most of it seemed like more of the same. The charm was there unlike in the third but it wasn't as potent as it was in the original two films. That's probably my main complaint about the film, this felt like a movie that was just made as a good bye to the franchise. It wasn't truly necessary but almost served as an apology for the 3rd film. I loved how they never even addressed the main character from the 3rd film. It was like he never existed, which I have to admit was pretty funny.In the end, I can't really say anything too harsh about the film. I think kids will like it although it is a bit more dark and depressing than the other chapters. I would say out of all of the films, this one is geared more towards adults than anyone else. The movie was also deeper than all the other entries. It was a decent final film and I applaud the writers and director for trying to redeem the franchise. I wouldn't say its a must own but for those who enjoy these characters and enjoy Shrek as a whole, I recommend seeing the final chapter at least once. Sure its no where near as unique or fun as the original two but if you want to pretend the third film never happened this one would be a good filler for that. It's not on a Pixar level as far as quality goes but in terms of a decent animated flick at the box office, "Shrek Ever After" is a good choice.MovieManMenzel's final rating for "Shrek Ever After" is a 7 out of 10. Take the kids, the family or who ever else likes the franchise and just enjoy the simple yet fun final chapter.
__label__7 Big Hero 6 provides what you'd want in a movie as a kid, and maybe as an adult depending on how in touch you are with your inner-kid. Especially if you have a sibling (brother more specifically) the film's core relationship between Hiro and his older brother - it's not something that we see throughout, due to the first major turning point in the film, but the memory certainly remains strong - it will resonate. But the movie is only intermittently interested in pulling at your heartstrings; it's ultimately about suiting up, getting on the gadgets, and putting together a team. So the film is a lot of things in one - not to mention having an instantly adorable (i.e. lucrative) mascot at the center with Baymax.By saying that it has "what you'd want" in a movie, I don't just mean super-heroes in the Marvel tradition (though it doesn't have the Marvel banner, this is based on a Marvel title, albeit an obscure-ish one), but anime as well. Many of the story turns, including the ones that are rather startling and the tonal shifts from lightness to tragedy and then swiftly back to lightness and action and thrills, it's like what I might expect to see from Japan directly. Which, of course, is part of the source itself, and the fact that the city is called 'San-FrancTokyo' (ho-ho) and the film has primarily Asian characters - whether they're all played by Asians is another story, but I digress.I can't be too hard on a film that is just out to sheerlessly entertain the audience like this. It does have some points on the nature of grief and what happens when people are faced with losing someone who can't come back (... or can they?) I think it could've been even better, possibly great, if it had a bit of a better balance on the dark and the light sides of the film. Ultimately, I felt, the tragic parts came when they had to, and outside of that Big Hero 6 is essentially a Fun Ride Of A Movie (in caps), primarily led by a Doctor-cum-Fighting robot in Baymax, and some other supporting characters who are fine, no more no less. Just fine.But maybe Baymax is enough, and certainly, more often than not, this is a very funny movie. He has the entertainment value of the Genie in Aladdin - like in that film, he's the friendly BIG companion who can help save the day for the protagonist - except instead of the thousands of impressions of Williams, it's the exact opposite that makes him appealing: one personality, pretty straightforward, and the dead-pan nature is closer to, oh I don't know, Jeff Bridges in Starman. He's the perfect innocuous character, but is hilarious for the reasons of reaction and straight silliness.It should also be noted the last act, the climax, has its predictable points - like most (or almost all) superhero movies, i.e. from Marvel, it has to all build up to a gigantic Must-Save-the-City from impending gargantuan destruction, involving space as well. And a turn from a character kind of comes out of nowhere, which is fine except that the development is kind of off to suddenly be the "villain". However, again, akin to anime, so I can let it slide and still be sucked into the peril of the thing (I mean, hey, they can't all be The Incredibles).For what it's worth though, there's so much to enjoy with this film that I'm sure if I was younger I'd eat it up with a spoon and want seconds-thirds-fourths-etc. It's an insatiably pleasant film to experience, faults and all. 7.5/10
__label__7 Thankfully not the sixth film in a sextuplet, Big Hero 6 is the latest visually dazzling Disney film since the studio's resurgence. I was not a fan of Frozen, deeming it inferior to Pixar's elite animation masterpieces, and the feature- length music video to 'Let it Go' was mildly enjoyable at best. However, Big Hero 6 is much more fun, with science prodigy Hiro Hamada (voiced by Ryan Potter) forming a bond with his brother's home-made "huggable" robot invention Baymax (voiced by Scott Adsit) and subsequently creating a team of superheroes to combat a masked villain with a nefarious motive (it's way better than I just made it sound.)The best part about Big Hero 6 is undoubtedly one of 2014's cutest characters. An ever so slightly more health conscious Groot, Baymax, your personal health care companion, is the film's highlight. He and Hiro provide both a surprising amount of emotional depth and superb action sequences which most definitely reflect the story's connection with Marvel. The supreme quality of the animation makes the action and flying scenes through the excellently-designed 'San Fransokyo' city skyline visibly awesome, cueing an unfortunately audible Neo-worthy "Woah" from me several times. The soundtrack is also highly recommended.Big Hero 6 isn't without its faults though. By all means don't lose faith if you need to see it with an offspring or younger sibling; it's certainly an enjoyable time. But it is not as re-watchable or fantastic as a Pixar offering or Disney Renaissance film. This is mainly due to the poorly fleshed out characters, with the exception of the two leads - the supporting characters who form the superhero team are decently done but disappear for a while before being re-introduced. Maybe I've become spoiled by Pixar over the last few years and am expecting too much from a kid's film. Probably. But make sure to see it anyway, and treat it like a Marvel film (which really it is) by watching out for the Stan Lee cameo and staying for the post-credits scene.
__label__7 What I appreciated most about this movie was the setting, having neither been to San Fransisco nor Tokyo I cannot comment on if it is true to either of them - but I really liked the city and the culture that resulted from it.You can hardly see the effect of the technological advances that has happened in this world, and because of this it feels like it's in the near future. As it is a movie for younger audiences, it is understandable that they want it to be easily relatable.The parts of this movie that I did not like are probably some of the parts that the younger audiences will like the best. The Fred-character was partly delightful, but also "too much". The same with some of the moments in the film (like the suggestion given by one of the heroes in the last fight). Some of the motivations of the characters are also simplified so much that they are hard to understand.If you are a comics geek, I recommend staying till after the credits!
__label__7 With a mix of "Alien," "Toy Story" and a bit of originality, Walt Disney Studios has created a wonderfully fun and nostalgic effort sure to put a smile on the faces of young and old, alike.And while a bit long in the tooth for an animated film (108 minutes), "Wreck-It Ralph" nevertheless is one of the better productions of this genre in 2012, at least.For those who grew up in the video game world, say post 1978, the sights and sounds of this movie will no doubt have many viewers pointing at the screen in recognition of the many, many classic arcade characters and machines (and even some of the newer systems, as well).Much of the charm of "Wreck-It Ralph" is based upon these recollections as characters from Street Fighter, Q-Bert, Sonic, Frogger, Dig-Dug, Donkey Kong, Super Mario Brothers, Halo, Mortal Kombat, Ms. Pac-Man, among many others abound in their own world when the neighborhood arcade closes for the night.Plotwise, the hulking but sensitive title character (voiced by John C. Reilly, "Step Brothers") has been destroying the same apartment building for more than 30 years in an older than old school game entitled "Fix-It Felix, Jr.," but all he has to show for it is constantly being thrown off a roof and living a lonely, depressing life in a huge pile of bricks.The game's perpetually perky hero, Felix, Jr. (voiced by Jack McBrayer, "30 Rock"), however, is forever honored with shiny medals and feted by the structure's residents for repairing Ralph's damage with his magic golden hammer.Having had enough, Ralph confesses the desire to be a good guy — for a change — to members of his bad guy support group. Here, various villains led by a ghost from Pac-Man spout AA and Narcano platitudes, such as "Good is not bad, Ralph, and bad is good," but he is determined to be the hero and win a medal for himself — even just once.And so his adventure through the games of Litwik's Fun Center begins.First, after removing the armor-plating of an inebriated soldier, Ralph enters the world of "Hero's Duty" to kill bugs and climb buildings. Although petrified and frustrated, he still manages to swipe a huge medal by trickery and brute force.Then, upon escaping in a space pod (with a virus bug stowaway), he crash lands in the sickeningly sweet world of "Sugar Rush," where cute-as-a-button racers drive home-baked go-karts in a land ruled by King Candy (voice of Alan Tudyk, "Transformers: Dark of the Moon," doing his best Ed Wynn).Here, Ralph also meets the pixilated "glitch" Vanellope von Schweetz (Sarah Silverman, "The School of Rock"), who steals his unearned medal as an entry fee for the race she is never allowed to participate in. The two form a reluctant alliance based upon the fact the winner will get a medal. She promises to win and he wrecks a bakery to make her a candy-coated race car.Meanwhile, Felix, Jr. and the leader from "Hero's Duty," Calhoun (Jane Lynch, "The 40-Year Old Virgin," "Glee"), are frantically searching for the AWOL Ralph. If they cannot find him, "Fix-It Felix, Jr." will be disconnected and the characters forced to live on the streets of Game Central Station.The duo are also trying to fight off an invasion of huge deadly bugs who are trying to take over "Sugar Rush," as well. There's a lot of gunfire, explosions, last-minute rescues, a big auto race and derring-do. There is also a little romance and even a lot of heart in this story of trying to improve oneselves all the while attempting to maintain one's core personality and individualism.Things are not always as they seem, but the overall look and feel of Wreck-It Ralph is a bright, splashing, colorful world that draws laughs and "Ohhhs" from parents as well as their children.Although do be warned, very young children may be frightened by some of the darker moments — the movie is rated PG for a reason.Gamers, teens, twenty-somethings and many others will also enjoy most of this film, although it tends to sag a bit in the middle and could have used a bit more judicious editing (maybe 10 minutes could have been shorn).Nonetheless, director Rich Moore (some "Futurama" and "Drawn Together" episodes) exhibits a deft hand in his animated lexicon and "Wreck-It Ralph" certainly showcases that ability.
__label__7 I did not really plan to watch "Wreck It Ralph" at all because I do not really like the recent Disney output. I am unfamiliar with the characters and the title and poster did not look attractive to me. However, with consistently good word-of-mouth reviews, I felt I had to give it a shot. And yes, "Wreck It Ralph" deserves its good reputation, and I am glad I got to see it."Wreck It Ralph" is the brutish gorilla-of-a-man villain of a arcade video game called "Fix It Felix". After thirty years of being thrown off the side of the building, Ralph feels he wanted to be the hero for a change. So he ventures outside his game to neighboring combat game "Hero's Duty" to earn his very own medal (as he sees Felix get a medal after each game). When he does get his medal, Ralph accidentally triggers a virus which attacks him and brings him into the Technicolor world of the racing game "Sugar Rush". There he meets the cute little glitch Vanellope who earnestly wants to join and win a race, but is not allowed to because of her imperfections. Can Ralph help Vanellope achieve her dream, save his video arcade world from viral destruction and be a real hero?While everything in "Wreck It Ralph" seemed new and original, I could not help but feel the spirit of "Monsters Inc." all throughout the film. It had the same basic story of a lonely but despised "bad" guy who does good and becomes a hero for a change. Even the interconnected world behind the video arcade (where all the characters had a life after the arcade closes for the night) is reminiscent of the labyrinthine world behind the closet doors in "Monsters Inc." Overall though, "Wreck It Ralph" remains to be fun and happy, with just the right dose of drama and action here and there to entertain viewers of all ages. The artwork of the characters and the settings is very colorful and visually arresting. This is definitely a contender for best animated feature film of the year.
__label__7 Charming and worthwhile adaptation about a timeless and marvelous Christmas story dealing with a boy boards a magical train which's driven to the North Pole and Santa Claus's home . Polar Express is an enjoyable Hollywood production , set on Christmas Eve , a wonderful and straight forward approach to the original's source material , based on a storybook written by Chris Van Allsburg who also created ¨Zahura¨ and ¨Jumanji¨ , being splendidly adopted . It is given the full ¨Motion Capture¨ deluxe treatment in this superior Holiday film . The production values & acting are both excellent, with just enough attractive to appeal to the tenderhearted, and with moving doses of allucinogenic adventure , thrilling events , case of the potentially frightening elements and adding sentiment ; all of them are blended into the mix, until, like a nice Christmas punch, the result appeals to all . The Christmas story tells of a boy who has reached an age when he begins to have materialistic doubts believing in Santa . The young boy is lying awake waiting for the sound of sleigh bells ringing from Santa's sleigh . The little boy receives a surprise, a steam engine's roar and whistle can be heard outside his window , he jumps from his bed and sees a train in the middle of his street , as he is visited by a strange Polar Express . A rare conductor (Tom Hanks) who displays no charity to mankind generally invites him on board to take an extraordinary trip to the outside his window . The doubting boy grabs his robe and rushes out the front North Pole with many other pajama-clad children . The little hero boy meets a group of children (voices from Nora Gaye , Eddie Deezen, Peter Scolari) . There, he gets an extraordinary gift only those who still believe in Santa can experience a nd will learn the error of his ways . To his delight, the roller-coaster ride complete his beliefs in one night giving him the opportunity to mend his thoughts to reaffirm Mr Claus .Splendid Tom Hanks who plays the train conductor of a magical express heading for the North Pole, in addition to five other parts. A marvelous recounting of a Christmas tale and Tom Hanks demonstrates once again his versatility on screen in this retelling of a surrealist, fantastic adventure that results to be a kaleidoscopic marvel . It packs spectacular set pieces , breathtaking sound effects , highly imaginative camera angles and impressive special effects ; furthermore a sensible musical score by Alan Silvestri , including a touching leitmotif . Atmospherically as a complete package it demonstrates the perfection of modern computer animation techniques . The movie is as comfortable and heartwarming as an old Christmas card .The whole concept of looking at a rapid train towards North Pole is creative in and of itself. After watching the movie, you may look at your life from the same enjoyable perspectives . Special effects add a nice little touch , but it is Tom Hanks's interaction with the various characters that really steal the show . Hanks manages to capture pure magic with his stunningly awesome portrayal of main characters , the Hero boy and the conductor , and it is definitely worth a look . It's fun and different approach to the Christmas tale with top notch effects by means of ¨Motion Capture¨ , a technique magnificently developed by Robert Zemeckis who will repeat in other films as ¨Beowulf¨ and ¨Christmas Carol¨ . A highly recommended film that nobody should miss it especially during Christmas time . ¨Robert Zemeckis's Polar Express¨ still ranks as one of the best adaptations of Christmas stories ever. This animated retelling about a doubting little boy taken on a journey of self-redemption and knowledge will appeal to Tom Hanks buffs , computer games enthusiasts and eye-candy fans .
__label__7 I try not to have expectations when I go to see films. Often, my problem is usually that I'm excited about a film's opening, and my expectations are usually high. In the case of "The Polar Express", my expectations were actually pretty low.Growing up, I would read and reread "The Polar Express", a book written and illustrated by Chris Van Allsburg, every Christmas. It still ranks as one of my favorite children's books. The story was great, the illustrations were amazing, and the book never lost its charm to me as I got older.Naturally, when I heard they were making a movie out of it, and an animated one at that, I could not help but dismiss it as a ploy for Hollywood to take a sweet, timeless children's fable, and exploit it for a cheap buck. Now that I've actually seen the movie, I can say that it was far better than I thought it would be.Director Robert Zemekis, who also co-produced and co-wrote the screenplay, managed not only to make the film look amazing, but still kept the heart and the main moral of the original book within the movie. There are a lot of parts here that were not in the book, like the train slipping on an icy lake, and the caboose disattaching from the train with some of the kids on it. However, the really important parts of the book were maintained here. The main boy in the story still wants a bell, Santa gives it to him, and . . . you can figure out the rest.I didn't expect to like many of the additional characters they added to the movie, but I thought they were all characterized very well. I liked how the conductor (Tom Hanks) actually had a personality, unlike in the book where the focus was solely on the boy. I also liked how the boy interacted with other kids on the train, especially an African-American girl (Nona Gaye) whom he befriends. There's also a really sweet song called "Spirit of the Season" that she sings along with a boy credited as "Lonely Boy". The way the song is sung, and the CGI-imaging of the night sky, are both truly spectacular.Some of the films excursions that I thought were going to be cheap plot devices actually served the film well. After all, a book that's roughly 30 pages long probably won't amount to a 2-hour movie. Still, these subplots were used in a way to not only cleverly characterize the main characters, but also to give a better dimension to the North Pole. You would never see the elves, how they transport themselves, and what the villages in Santa's North Pole look like if the film stuck straight to the book. Zemekis has consistently been very good at using computer animation to add not only to characters, but make their worlds far more elaborate and interesting.With all that said, I had some major reservations about the film. While the animation was really good in terms of set design, I hated how it made the humans look. They almost looked like zombies at times, and it was a little scary.Don't get me wrong. Motion capture animation is pretty amazing, and probably not as time consuming as regular animation. However, when the main characters are humans, and the conductor looks exactly like Tom Hanks, why not just film them? That would probably cut the $165 million budget down significantly, or at least I would imagine.Also, it really irked me that most of the children did not have names. The main character is labeled "Hero Boy" in the closing credits, the black girl is named "Hero Girl", a nerdy boy is credited as "Know-It-All", and so on. Why not give them names? What's the harm in naming Hero Boy something like Tommy or Jimmy? It's not hard.I also hated how the main characters are kids, yet the actors who do the voices for them are not kids. "Hero Boy" is actually voiced by Tom Hanks, although he actually sounds like a real kid. Same with Nona Gaye, Peter Scolari, and Eddie Deezen. While their child voices sound authentic, it seems like a lot of unnecessary work to digitally doctor their voices to make them sound like kids. Why not just (Gee, I don't know!) hire child actors to do the voices!?!?! It worked for "A Charlie Brown Christmas" (1965), and it can't be difficult.Tom Hanks doing the voices of six different characters felt more gimmicky to me than cutting edge. Hanks is far from the first actor to play multiple roles in a single movie, but Peter Sellers, Lee Marvin, or Eddie Murphy he is not. In the movies those actors were in as multiple characters, they disappeared into their characters so much that their multiple roles showed their acting ranges. Here, every character Hanks voices (except the boy) sounds like Hanks. You can tell that Hanks is the voice of the conductor, the hobo, the boy's father, and Santa Claus. The gimmick is so distracting that it takes you out of the movie for a few moments.While "The Polar Express" has its hang ups, it can and should be considered the first Christmas classic of the CGI-age. It still gets re-released into theaters every Christmas, as it has a renewed following thanks to great 3D effects that are becoming increasingly popular amongst moviegoers. It also is one of the only adaptations of a children's book that adds to its source while also maintaining its heart. My guess is that many generations will return to it year after year, and it will keep ringing just like the bell in the story.
__label__7 Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines is often criticized by fans as being not in the same tone as its predecessors. While I agree with that statement in many ways, I think Jonathan Mostow made an honest effort to bookend the series.Storyline: The story is probably one of the things I take issue with most. It brings up new questions on the nature of time travel within the Terminator universe, as well as bringing new plot holes (something the previous films also had). Some of these flubs could've been corrected with a little research, but I digress.The story tends to be a retread of Terminator 2, which hurts it a lot. But Mostow tries to draw attention away from this with some awesome action sequences. The storyline, in this respect, takes it up a notch with scenes such as the restroom fight and crane scene.Acting: I think the acting is one of the best things in this film. Mostow did an excellent job in casting. Rather than going for actors known for their work in action films, the director instead used performers known for their talent in dramatic roles. Nick Stahl and Claire Danes both portray their characters with depth and humanity. Stahl does an especially good role in showing the paranoia and uncertainty of the future.And, as always, Arnold Schwarzenegger does a great job as the Terminator. His lack of social interaction provides many humorous moments throughout the film, while also giving him a drill instructor approach when dealing with the John Connor character.Lastly, there is Kristanna Loken as the T-X. While not as intimidating as the T-1000, I didn't expect this to be the case. Robert Patrick played a character with no face and every face, which can only work once if at all. That being said, Loken does a decent job in the role, providing a very cold performance for an equally cold character.Visual/Special Effects: The visuals of Terminator 3 are pretty good. The liquid metal effects are still as great as they were in 1991 along with some of the CG animated endoskeletons in the Future War sequence.My only qualms with the visuals is that there is a lack of blue tint that was prevalent in James Cameron's previous films, but this is more a matter of taste than anything.Musical Score: Brad Fiedel's dark and mechanical theme is absent from the film until the credits arrive, which is something that bothered me. Not only that, but T3's rendition of the theme isn't as powerful as it is in its predecessors. However, Marco Beltrami does manage to increase the tension of scenes with his score, though little else. This aspect, like the storyline, could of been improved.Conclusion: Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines wasn't a necessary sequel, but a decent one. I don't believe this installment ruined the series as much as, say, Alien^3. This film will no doubt continue to be one that either fans love or hate.I happen to love it.
__label__7 Not many directors have the clout of Christopher Nolan. Most of them receive notes from their fretting studios: suggestions (or demands) to change plot points or highlight certain characters/actors, which must be adhered to for contractual or financial reasons. With huge, intelligent blockbuster successes like the Dark Knight franchise and Inception, Nolan has deservedly won carte blanche from Warner Bros. for Interstellar - he gets garguantan sums of money and complete autonomy to realise his artistic vision. In effect, he's making an indie movie on a blockbuster scale. Ironically, this lack of oversight might be just what keeps Interstellar - a very good, occasionally brilliant foray into the furthest reaches of our galaxy and beyond - from greatness.Cooper (Matthew McConaughey), a former pilot and engineer, is now reluctantly scraping together a living as a farmer on a starving Earth. With sandstorms swirling and food supplies dwindling by the day, it doesn't seem likely that Cooper's children, stoic Tom and inquisitive Murphy, will have much of a world left to inherit when they grow up. While investigating a "ghost" in Murphy's bedroom, Cooper deciphers a message that brings him to a top-secret NASA base. Once there, Cooper learns from his former mentor, Dr Brand (Michael Caine), that NASA is looking for solutions to Earth's crisis in other galaxies. A recently-opened wormhole has given NASA and its scientists access to a whole new galaxy of planets. Brand appeals to Cooper to pilot the final and most important mission: to determine whether any of three identified planets can truly host human life. But it's a journey from which Cooper might never return - one that will take him away from his kids and everything he has ever known and loved.That's not even the half of it – Nolan's narrative is a sprawling, ambitious one that asks heavy metaphysical questions about the position and role of humanity in the universe, filtered through the prism of a father and daughter whose bond transcends time and space. It's shot through with complex scientific theories about wormholes and time travel courtesy of theoretical physicist Kip Thorne (who served as a consultant on the film). Indeed, much of Interstellar plays with such philosophical gravity that one can't help wondering if it's simply too deep a subject to be effectively communicated in a movie that must also create emotional stakes and real characters.Clocking in at almost three hours, Interstellar pulses with intelligence and occasional bursts of brilliance. The science and emotion of its story works best on each planet they manage to visit, with Nolan crafting some chillingly smart sci-fi moments amidst the human drama experienced by Cooper's crew. As badly as Cooper wants to save enough fuel to make the return trip home, Amelia Brand (Anne Hathaway) has both professional and personal stakes in visiting the planet that's furthest away from the wormhole. They trade hope for time, the minutes they use to hunt for salvation translating into the loss of decades with their loved ones. The film is at its best when the members of the Endurance - including David Gyasi's Romilly and Wes Bentley's Doyle - confront one another, and establish contact (or fail to do so) with the scouting teams that preceded them through the wormhole.But Interstellar also suffers from a bloated and faintly silly final act. The science of it may be well-founded (who knows, after all, what miraculous answers really do lie within a black hole?) and the concept very cool, but it doesn't quite translate as such. Instead, the film hyper-blasts itself into a oddly cheerful (and confusing) ending that feels purely fictional and not at all scientific. There's no denying, either, that Nolan could have carved half an hour or more out of Interstellar without losing any of its narrative or emotional density. Instead, many scenes unfold in an almost obstinately languid fashion, including a moment when Cooper is left gasping for oxygen on the icy terrain of an alien planet. It's pretty evident, too, that Nolan really wanted to make sure his audiences knew how little greenscreen he used to make the film; for no other discernible reason, his camera lingers in extreme close-up - and far too often - on the exterior shells of the various spacecrafts designed for the film.Nolan can afford the best when it comes to his cast as well, and it shows. McConaughey anchors the film with a gravitas and tenderness quite unknown before his career McConnaissance, and he's ably supported by a steely Hathaway, whose character, just like the film she's in, blends cold, pragmatic science with a churning wealth of emotion. Jessica Chastain and Matt Damon, in roles perhaps best left unspecified to avoid any explicit spoilers, are excellent too - the former radiates quite enough warmth and intelligence to make us believe that she can save the world, and the latter admirably treads in morally grey areas to good effect.For months before its release, Nolan kept Interstellar firmly under wraps. Everyone speculated that it would be a game-changer - a sci- fi blockbuster as thrilling and thought-provoking as it is entertaining. In some ways, that's true of the final product: Nolan's film is brave, brainy film-making, and it looks absolutely spectacular. But, on closer examination, Interstellar loses some of its gloss and varnish - and beneath it all lies an unwieldy script that meanders a little too long and wastes a little too much of the big, breathtaking ideas that underpin its story.
__label__7 What is going on with the IMDb user reviews lately? It's like the masses can no longer be trusted. In the last month, the users have decreed "Airbender" the worst abomination ever, when in fact it's just an average movie. User reviews raved over "Despicable Me", when it was about as entertaining as a "Dexter's Lab" rerun. And now? "Inception" is the 3rd best movie ever made? Are you kidding me? This was a very creative and interesting flick that went waaaayyy overboard. The problem with this genre (you know the genre -- was it a dream? or a dream about a dream? or a parallel universe where people dream they're dreaming about parallel universes while pretending to dream) is sooner or later you stop caring about the actual action because it's a dream. So the 20 minutes spent watching gunfights and car crashes in the pouring rain, and the 30 minutes spent watching these guys shoot up a ski fortress, and another 30 minutes watching what's-his-name float around a hotel just didn't do it for me. Not a terrible movie, but 3rd greatest movie ever? You must be dreaming.
__label__7 The movie was a great satire on the Japanese Government during the time of the earthquake and subsequent tsunami. The reactions by the Prime Minister, defense minister, etc etc during Godzilla's initial appearance perfectly recreate the indecision that lead to more people being killed in that country than necessary during the real life disaster. In short, this movie uses Godzilla to satirize the Japanese government. A new, more decisive body of government forms in the aftermath and one end of it wants to evacuate Tokyo to Nuke him and the other wants to make a more experimental approach by analyzing Godzilla's body chemistry (the science is actually pretty good and leads to a surprisingly tense climax that involves construction cranes pumping hoses down Godzillas throat). The scenes with the humans are also shot in a very dynamic and fast paced way. Characterization suffers (Japanese films do this thing where they just add an odd quirk to a characters personality and call it a day) but its all for the purpose on finding out how to take care of the giant monster rampaging through the city while minimizing human casualties. Believably too, like how the government would actually react would it have happened.As for the big guy himself, Toho definitely plays around with him a lot. He's still a big green iconic monster, but they change his design more than I've ever seen before. When he first appears in the movie, he's more like a tadpole and over the film evolves into the monster we know. But even then he does things like opens his lower jaw when breathing fire like the predator, shooting beams from his dorsal fin and tail, and there's even a VERY chilling shot at the end involving Godzillas tail with some imagery with broader implications on what Godzilla is able to do. But for all these new things that happen, there's a bunch of stylistic choices that keep it rooted in its history. There's music being used from the original 50's score than ever before (they use more than just that classic brass theme), Godzilla still has his trademark roar, and when he breathes fire in a way we've never seen before (it starts as gas, lights up into a jetstream of flame, and then concentrates into a beam) there's a classic sound effect played that we haven't heard in ages. In short, there's a bunch of new and classic stylistic choices in equal measure. Plus the scene where he destroys Tokyo is, in a weird way, gorgeous to look at.In short, this is the smartest giant monster movie I've ever seen. It's not for everybody but it's certainly for people who understand what that means.
__label__7 New version based on Japanese classic monster with excessive and modern computer generator FX . An unknown accident occurs in Tokyo Bay's Aqua Line, which causes an emergency cabinet to assemble , but only to say that the creature is so huge it's weight would crush it if it came on land . Nuclear waste and carlessness of man mutate a gilled creature in the Tokyo Bay. As an underwater prehistoric reptile emerges from the depths after he has been awakened from slumber by atomic energy and destroying buildings and people . With social media capturing the footage and with newly acquired appetite for atomic testing , the emergency cabinet meets to find out what the creature is and if it will be a real threat , then Godzilla's destructive power outbursts . They are proven wrong as the creature comes on land horrifying the people of Tokyo and knocking over buildings . Meanwhile , the monster appearance precipites an international incident .The monster scaring towners , terrorizing Tokyo and its streets , breaking buildings and everything to get in its ways. Later it comes back in its next form and is now taller , impressive and indestructable . The cabinet gives it the name "Godzilla". Along the way Godzilla clumsily destroys Tokyo office buildings, skyline , skyscraper and knock commuter trains of their elevated tracks . A god incarnate. A city doomed. Nippon tai Gojira. Reality versus fiction.This is a roller-coaster ride plenty of destruction , wreak havoc , action-packed , thrills , chills and breathtaking scenes . Fun moments and frightening entertainment when happens appearance Godzilla carrying out an extreme mayhem , confusion and destruction . As Japan is plunged into chaos upon the appearance of a giant monster, then the cabinet sends a defence force to eliminate the monster but it evolves and starts inadvertently overheating with radiation and this causes the monster to run back to the bay, leaving a risk of returning to the cabinet . Based on the original Godzilla , any other bigger-than-life tale that span almost 60 years would have to answer some serious question about plot repetition . Fantastic design creature , being well and brilliantly made by means of state-of-art digital efects .The motion picture was competently directed by Hideaki Anno, Shinji Higuchi . Finale leaves door open for an inevitable follow-up but still no realized.Other movies about the Japanese monster, always produced by Toho productions and with rubber suits, miniature sets, are the following ones : the classic ¨Gojira¨ (1955) or ¨Godzilla King of the monsters¨ by Inoshora Honda ,commercially hit in the US , being one of the first post-WWII Japanese film to break American boxoffice including ridiculously primitive FX even in its own day ; ¨Godzilla king of the monsters¨(1956); ¨Godzilla raid again¨(1959); ¨Godzilla vs the sea monster¨(1966) Jun Fukuda; ¨Godzilla on mosnter island¨ (1972) , ¨Godzilla vs Smog monster(¨72) , ¨Godzilla vs Biollante¨ , ¨Godzilla vs King Ghidora¨, ¨Godzilla Vs Monster Zero¨ , ¨ Godzilla vs Megalon¨(1976); ¨Godzilla¨ (1985) , ¨Godzilla vs Megagodzilla¨(1993); ¨Godzilla revenge¨, ¨Godzilla 2000¨....
__label__7 Another reboot in the long-running Japanese franchise that has contained actors in giant rubber costumes decimating cities and brawling with each other amidst chaotic infernos. All of those aspects have been incinerated in Anno's instalment, who substitutes typical kaiju destruction with bureaucracy and satirical politics. The result is a sublime resurgence of the titular "God incarnate". A colossal beast rises from the sea and starts destroying Japanese cities where the government must form a plan to prevent further destruction. The complexity of Japan's bureaucratic system is fully explored, with several organisations and administrations not taking ownership of the situation. The satirical nature of the narrative acts as a metaphor for recent disasters such as Fukushima and Tõhoku whilst also reflecting on Nagasaki and Hiroshima. The creature itself acts as galavanting nuclear reactor, leaving radiation in its wake. The interjectory catastrophes within the politically charged perspective surprisingly makes for a captivating watch. Suddenly the entire situation feels real, with economic struggles and urban evacuation rapidly taking place. Yet, patriotic optimism is nested deep within the story, with Japanese officials wanting the best for their country. This means relying on other nations for assistance, where any past relationships have been put aside for the greater good. Godzilla itself comes alive through a somewhat archaic animation style, accompanied by classic sound effects. With a violently visceral second act attack of Tokyo that will have you on the edge of your seat. Regrettably, the entire final act felt deflated. The excitement of the atomic rays ultimately left nothing else enthralling, with the political debates wearing thin. The lack of character attachment exhumed a slight clinical aesthetic that prevented an emotional investment towards the story and its white-collared individuals. Fear not however, as Godzilla is back and more formidable than ever.
__label__7 In 2004, after 28 films spanning 50 years, Toho Studios put the juggernaut Godzilla franchise on mothballs indefinitely, leaving lifelong fans such as myself in limbo as to whether we'd ever see our favorite lizard king rise again. So when word about "Shin Godzilla" began to circulate, I was well stoked. Twelve years is a long time to wait for a resurfacing of my favorite monster, and the good news is that "Shin Godzilla" delivers the goods.I was fortunate to take in a screening of Toho's rebooted Godzilla last night. The film held more than a few surprises and is something of a fresh take on the execution of a Godzilla film, yet it honors its ancestors, to the point that much of the original "Gojira" music and sound effects are present and unmolested. On the surface, "Shin Godzilla" is a fairly standard entry into the franchise: Godzilla rises from the depths; Godzilla stomps Tokyo and smashes army ordnance like toys; Godzilla is ultimately defeated by unconventional means, owning to the ingenuity of our protagonist (not always the outcome - in some films, Godzilla wins). But Godzilla himself is only incidental to the proceedings. "Shin Godzilla" is really about the decline of Japan. It's the filmmaker's polemic on what's wrong with the Land of the Rising Sun, and what needs to change so that it may have a future. Politics have often played a part in Godzilla movies, but this newest entry may be one of the most political of the bunch since the original "Gojira".This is in evidence from the opening moments of the film. Godzilla's first appearances are met with bureaucratic near-gridlock: legions of decrepit ministers and cabinet members shuffle from one meeting to the next, engaged in endless discussions over the problem while accomplishing nothing; outside the monster lays waste to large swaths of the city. The movie freely mocks these elected leaders and their obsession with minutiae and decorum. The official titles of the countless bureaucrats we meet are scrolled across the screen constantly, as if it mattered to anyone. Every meeting (and there are so, so many) is given an official title, also displayed on screen, as are the names given to projects, initiatives, reports and other documents, generated furiously by these mostly old men and women who sit in government offices and ponder how to respond in accordance with policy while Japan burns. In one scene, we watch the Prime Minister sit stone faced, waiting for news which he can clearly hear to be relayed down the table bucket-brigade style, until it reaches the correct person in the room, who may then communicate it to him.Struggling through all this dysfunction is our protagonist, a younger, junior-level staff member whose impatience and frustration with the inaction among his higher-ups propels the story forward. At one point, he vents aloud about the destruction sustained while his so-called superiors debated policy, and is quickly warned to check his cockiness. He is eventually able to assemble a team of mostly young nonconformists from various scientific disciplines, who work tirelessly towards an ingenious solution to neutralize the threat of Godzilla. In every way this group is the exact opposite of the rigid and stagnating body that governs them, and the filmmaker takes great pains to make this clear. When the UN passes a resolution authorizing the US to drop a nuclear warhead on Tokyo to destroy Godzilla, the elder guard seems grudgingly resigned to their fate. Our young hero and his allies conspire to prevent the blast in a desperate effort to buy just a bit more time so they may deploy their non-destructive solution. The layers of subtext are deep in this act: the impotence of once-proud Japan, the humiliation of its failure, the still-painful scars of its past (particular as it relates to atomic weaponry and civilian casualties), the resentment directed at other nations that presume to seal its fate - everything is in play. Godzilla is merely a plot device here. The real drama lies elsewhere.In the end, there's a message of hope: Japan's 20th century ascension was the product of "scrap and build"; if it worked before, it can work again, with the bright and optimistic youth of our protagonist at the helm. The filmmaker clearly believes that the children of Japan are its future - ironic in a nation that is suffering from some of the lowest birthrates in the world, but understandable nonetheless. "Shin Godzilla" is not a monster movie, but rather it's a rallying cry for a changing of the guard.OK, so now the fanboy stuff: the new Godzilla is the biggest and baddest Godzilla yet! Literally, he is most massive Godzilla portrayed to date. While retaining the characteristics that make him Godzilla, he sports upgraded fire-breathing and auxiliary "photon beams" from his spine and his tail. Overall his look is meaner, less personable, and more radioactive than in previous incarnations. He also mutates four times during the course of the film. The movie incorporates contemporary memes such as social media and cellphone video, but does not overdo it (thankfully). The look is crisp, and the visual effects appear to be done in the hybrid style that Japan favors. One minor complaint: "Shin Godzilla" could have used more gratuitous building-smash action. The movie is too quick to cut away from the mayhem, and some action sequences are lackluster.The film introduces many, many dozens of characters, and despite the fact that the vast majority of screen time focuses on the aforementioned meetings and conferences, things move very quickly. Keeping with the multiple layers of subtitles is challenging at times. The good news is that this provides more than enough justification to acquire the DVD or Blu-Ray when it's released, because you'll want to watch "Shin Godzilla" more than once!
__label__7 Now don't get me wrong from the summary, I did enjoy The Hobbit. I enjoyed it in fact more than I expected to especially since I delayed watching them because of certain fears and frustrations I had regarding it.The Hobbit was the very first book I read back in the mid 80's and I adored it. I simply couldn't figure out how it could be turned into a trilogy! I feared it was being done so to milk the franchise and let's be honest that's exactly why it was done.The Hobbit has most of the charm of LOTR and all of its beauty. Top that off with a stellar cast and it was destined to do well at the box office (Which it did) However something was different, something was.....off.Though the film contains the same level of violence as LOTR its overflowing with comedy and goofiness. I expected some, but not to this extent. At one point it felt like I was watching Labyrinth (1986) again, not like that's a bad thing but I didn't expect it here.It looks great, its scored near perfectly and as mentioned the cast do a great performance and it was nice to see the likes of James Nesbitt and Sylvester McCoy up on the big screen.Inevitably there was going to be comparison with LOTR, that was inescapable and the comparison just doesn't help it at all. It pales in comparison and with all the silliness I found myself underwhelmed.The Hobbit is a passable effort but is more like the Mythica series than Lord Of The Rings.The Good: Beautiful Excellent score Brilliant cast The Bad: Some parts go beyond comedic into the realms of silly Martin Freeman just isn't leading man material Goblin town song, really? Stock scream was totally unnecessary Things I Learnt From This Movie: Someone should never use the term "Mothers glory box" again The distance Bilbo's sword needs to detect orcs/goblins changes between scenes, any particular reason?
__label__7 As this film opens an elderly Bilbo Baggins explains how the once great Dwarfs were forced out of their mountain kingdom by the dragon Smaug. He begins to talk of a great adventure and we are transported back to shortly before the adventure began when a young Bilbo meets the wizard Gandalf the Grey. He invites Bilbo on an adventure but he declines; the next day thirteen Dwarfs turn up at Bilbo's home believing that they have been invited. They tell him of their quest but he initially refuses; he has no desire to leave home. The next morning he changes his mind and so begins a quest that will see them fighting trolls, orcs and goblins as well as meeting elves, another wizard and in Bilbo's case the somewhat crazed Smeagol who will become a lifelong enemy following the theft of a certain ring.Before watching this the main criticism I'd heard was that breaking the story into three long films was a mistake; having seen it I'm inclined to agree. The story took too long to get started and when it did it got nowhere fast; the party had a succession of battles but there was never the sense of danger that there was in the Lord of the Rings films. Another weakness was the fact that the party was a large group of dwarfs with one hobbit and one wizard rather than the more mixed group in the earlier trilogy; only a couple of them stood out from the group; the rest were very much the same. On the plus side the film looked great with many sweeping shots though action set in a spectacular landscape and the actors did a decent enough job; I particularly enjoyed seeing Andy Serkis' return as Smeagol even though he is doing motion-capture work for a CGI character. Overall I'd say this is worth watching if you enjoyed the Lord of the Rings trilogy even though it isn't as good as those films hopefully the next instalment will improve matters.
__label__7 The Fast and the Furious is probably the first movie to get me into cars while at the same time enjoying myself without having to worry about a plot.Paul Walker plays Brian O'Conner, a hot shot police officer, who goes undercover as a car junkie Brian Spilner to see if a local street racer/mechanic by the name of Dominic Toretto (Vin Diseal) has anything to do with hijacking a bunch of cargo from DVD's, TV's, entertainment sets, and so forth while at the same time falling head over heels for Dominic's sister Mia (Jordana Brewster). Brian comes so close while at the same time gaining trust to the target (Dominic) itself where it's only a matter of time before the truth comes out.The film itself has the best action sequences involving street racing and high octane action where despite a so-so plot to follow, or one that's been seen before (such as Point Break), you don't have to worry about a thing. It's just pure fun.The film also stars Michelle Rodriguez (S.W.A.T.) as Dominic's girlfriend, Letty; Ted Levine (The Silence of the Lambs) as Sgt. Tanner, and singer Ja Rule in a small cameo as a contestant against Dominic.
__label__7 "The Curious Case Of Benjamin Button" would seem to have everything going for it - major stars, an enormous budget, and a conceit that can't be beat. However, in the end it's that very conceit that hamstrings an otherwise wondrous piece of movie-making.Fincher's characters tend to be psychos, paranoiacs, obsessives, some of whom struggle vainly against the darkness in their own souls, but many others who have embraced it. Benjamin Button is none of the above, and that's perhaps his problem. Button, born "under unusual circumstances" in 1918 New Orleans, spends his early life literally surrounded by death, raised, as he is, by an orderly in a home for the elderly. As a prematurely old man himself (an effect achieved by fantastic MOCAP work from Pitt), perhaps it's not surprising that as he grows into a body with which he may truly engage the world, he is more content to observe appreciably. Now, this may be true to the spirit of the character, but unfortunately for Fincher and his screenwriter, Eric Roth, it doesn't make for very interesting cinema. At a recent screening, Roth referred to Button's character as the "anti-Gump", a classification that seemed both apt and problematic. This film will certainly earn comparisons to Robert Zemeckis' modern classic(also written by Roth), but where that film had a truly fascinating central character, who experienced as many mistakes and tragedies as victories and happiness, Fincher and Roth's protagonist is a cipher. There's a telling sequence around the middle of the film, where Button, by now a merchant seaman holed up in a dingy hotel in Murmansk, strikes up a relationship with a bored wife of a minor British official (Tilda Swinton). Unable to sleep, they meet each night for tea and good conversation (and later, sex). But instead of letting us hear what those conversations are about, he simply creates a montage, set to music, of various meetings fading into one another. By the time Swinton's character departs the film, we know next to nothing new about Benjamin other than that he has trouble sleeping and likes hot tea. The fact is that even Swinton's character, on screen for perhaps fifteen minutes, is more engaging. It's a frustrating glimpse of what might have been, had the filmmakers chosen to put the character before the gimmick, instead of the other way around.Which brings us to Cate Blanchett. As Daisy, whom Benjamin meets as a young girl and who grows into a luminously beautiful and troubled ballet dancer, Blanchett shines as brightly as she ever has on screen. Unlike Benjamin, Daisy is not content to simply accept whatever life throws her way - she has dreams and attempts to act on them, and does her best to lead a normal, interesting life. Benjamin, passive as always, must quietly observe as she grows out of the playmate of his "youth" and into a somewhat headstrong woman who nonetheless possessed of enormous potential. His loyalty pays off, though, when circumstances bring them together again at a time when they both happen to be the same age - a fleeting moment, and one they will cherish. But again, the relationship between couple and audience is one-sided, because while we can see why Daisy would wish to return to the rock-steady loyalty of Benjamin, it's unclear what he feels about her other than a regard (she's certainly lovely enough). We are told in rather soggy voice-over narration (spread throughout the film) that Daisy is "the most beautiful person I'd ever seen", but that's all we'll get. And so it goes, for nearly three hours. We cut frequently, and irritatingly, back to a modern-day hospital in New Orleans, where a dying Daisy asks her daughter (Julia Ormond) to read to her from Benjamin's diary as Hurricane Katrina pounds on the windows. There's something being said in these scenes about regret and the passage of time, but the appealing Ormond's character is one-note, and Blanchett seems nearly suffocated under pounds of old age makeup. It's from this diary whence springs Benjamin's narration, but, as Mr. Roth pointed out, Gump this ain't. Suffice it to say that the budget is up there on screen as we go on this strange trip through the twentieth century with Brad Pitt as our guide. A possibly unintentional (I doubt it) laugh arises mid-film when Benjamin finally reaches something around Pitt's own age. He strides into a garage in the mid-50's, decked out in leather jacket and shades, and whips a tarp off a motorcycle, on which he speeds out to the harbor to do some bare-chested sailing on a boat he builds himself (the shades remain on his head). It's a knowing wink to the wish-fulfillment of the casting - who wouldn't want their old crotchety husband to get younger and younger until they looked like Brad Pitt? - and a clever way to underscore the underlying tragedy of the situation. Sure, he looks like Brad Pitt in "Fight Club", "Se7en", "Thelma & Louise", but eventually he's going to look like Brad Pitt in "Cutting Class", and then Brad Pitt in seventh grade, and finally Brad Pitt as a toddler, and that's not so sexy.Pitt does a fine job. It's a pity that Fincher, who has used him to such great effect twice before, didn't let him cut loose. Instead this is his most low-key performance since Meet Joe Black, in which he played Death, who was really just a nice young man curious about the world. Come to think of it, that's pretty much all that Benjamin Button is, and, if nothing else, he knows more about death than just about anybody around. Too bad that a film that means to affirm life turns out to be rather lifeless.
__label__7 Technically, like most of Davin Fincher's movies, "The Curious Case Of Benjamin Button" is a wonder. The curious saga of a man ageing backwards, gives Fincher the possibility of doing what he does best, tricks. It is the drama part that he doesn't seem to master or perhaps he doesn't care. "Zodiac" was his most coherent dramatic venture. Here he gets infatuated by the CGI and manages some spectacular punches but it is thanks to Brad Pitt the the exercise has a soul. He is truly remarkable. He manages to overcome the distraction of the gadgetry and show us the interior of the man. Brad Pitt's warmth wins over David Fincher's coldness and the most successful parts of the film are reflected in Brad Pitt's eyes. Geared towards an inexorable ending, there are moments of real beauty and tenderness. I'm convinced those moments could have been captured with a Super 8. The over direction of Fincher puts the emotional undertone in real jeopardy but, thankfully, the overall experience is mostly a welcome and rewarding one.
__label__7 Brad Pitt makes his mark as an actor here as Benjamin Button, a man with a strange disorder - physically aging backwards. Along his emotional journey of life he encounters friends, family, loved ones, adventures, and most of all, chances.Rarely has a film keeps the realism intact while still sustaining the magic of it. Truly, David Fincher and Pitt have created a film that is leaps and bounds ahead of its time. Taking a strange and fascinating tale and making it into one of the decade's very best films is something of an accomplishment.Pitt, here, is an actor, not just a pretty face anymore. With the state-of-the-art visual effects at his hand, he pretty much carries the whole show. It is perhaps the first time since Andy Serkis' rendition of Gollum in The Lord of the Rings, that great acting has eclipsed terrific special effects. You genuinely feel and sympathize for his character, rooting for him all the way. Pitt owns the film, in short. He and David Fincher make a great team, and they look unstoppable to create more terrific films.For the supporting cast, Cate Blanchett plays the love interest of Daisy to great effect. Her tale with Benjamin's make them somewhat star-crossed lovers. I won't go that far into detail but you'll see much later into the film. Taraji P. Henson also shines as Benjamin's surrogate mother, who gives her son the support he needs. Not to mention Tilda Swinton as an early love interest.The screenplay by Eric Roth is excellent. Told from Benjamin's point of view with some highlights by Daisy, there are no clichéd dialogs to be heard, and the script is filled with equal moments of joy, ecstasy, sorrow, and understanding. Some dialog here is timeless and quotable, such as the film's tag-line; "We are defined by opportunities, even by the ones we miss." When you age backwards, you get more chances rather than missing it. I love that and wish for it, but sadly that is what movies are made for. And if that is what you've been thinking after or during your viewing of this film, then this film has succeeded.David Fincher is a tour-de-force of film-making. Straying away from gritty violent thrillers such as "Zodiac", the unmatched "Fight Club", and "Se7en", he takes a bizarre love story, the most expensive budget he's faced, and crafts a film with such substance and flair that he adds quality to the film. There are moments in the film which make it obvious Fincher is calling the shots. The paced is slow, but this allows us to absorb and be infatuated with the characters. There is not one dull moment in the film. It is constantly gripping and re-watchable.Technically speaking, the cinematography and lighting is absolutely perfect; gorgeous to the eyes and senses, and while giving the right tone and feel to the film shows us director Fincher's trademark. Accompanying this is the beautiful and heart-wrenching score by Alexandre Desplat, which is absolutely flawless. The special effects are unique and well-made, and you'll find yourself confused to whether certain scenes were made with special effects or not. If you want to see actors when they were young this is the best rendition of effects possible, and I hope the future movies use more of this amazing technology to make their stars more bankable. The special effects deserve their Oscar for it is the best I've seen in any movie in 2008.In short, it is a beautiful, tragic, and terrific movie. It is certainly timeless and will stand the test of time, and hopefully, age well like fine wine (no pun intended). This absolute gem deserves the nominations it gets, too bad it was released the same year as Slumdog Millionaire.Overall rating: 9/10
__label__7 As of this writing, Benjamin Button is number 70 on IMDb's Top 250 movies of the year list. Many people believe this film deserves, in a year with films like Frost/Nixon and Doubt (and many others which I will not mention) that this is the one film which will bring home Best Picture.Wow. This is overrated. It will bring home the Oscars it deserves: Cinematography and Makeup, and if it's very, very, lucky, Special Effects. What bugs me most about the film is the thing at the core: the relationship between Daisy and Benjamin. It misses something very, very, important: why they fell in love in the first place.The most interesting section is one that completely captivated: when he has a love affair with a lady at the Russian hotel, why? Because they kept it at a brisk 30 minutes so it doesn't drag on for 2 hours, it gets you captivated, and it ends when it is meant to end. You can also tell why they had the affair in the first place: they wanted to find out to what it was like to be in love, or in the girls case: Benjamin's strange affliction.You (or at least me) become sick of Benjamin's relationship with Daisy when you realize it fails to ask the most important question at what is the dead center of the entire 2 hour 48 minute film: Why did they fall in love???Pitt gives a tolerable performance, nothing Oscar worthy. Blanchett, on the other hand was very good as Daisy, trying to fuel the chemistry with Pitt that just isn't there.It's also very long with a 168-minute runtime, it thinks it can spend all the time trying to win, but in the end, it fails. There are many useless scenes that could've been thrown out (particularly this one scene in which it shows all the things, which could've happened to prevent Daisy being hit by a cab, which leaves you thinking in the 5-minute section that feels more like 30 minutes which left me thinking "when will this end???"). Worth a rental for the astounding cinematography and makeup.
__label__7 In 1944, in Poland, the boy Erik Lehnsherr unleashes his magnetic power when his mother is sent to a concentration camp. The evil Dr. Sebastian Shaw (Kevin Bacon) brings Erik to his office and kills his mother, increasing his abilities through anger. In New York, the wealthy Charles Xavier (James McAvoy) meets the mutant Raven (Jennifer Lawrence) and invites her to live in his manor.In 1962, the CIA agent Moira MacTaggert (Rose Byrne) discovers the existence of mutants working with Shaw and the invites Professor Xavier to recruit mutants to work for the USA government. Xavier teams up with Raven, Erik and a group of young mutants. Sooner they learn that the evil Shaw has the intention of beginning a nuclear war to destroy the world and increase his power. "X-Men: First Class" is an entertaining film for fans of action films with superheroes that discloses the beginning of the saga of the mutants. The plot has many flaws, like for example: why Erik destroys Dr. Shaw's office, kills the guards but does not destroy the killer Shaw? How Xavier and Raven become best friends after a five- minute dialog? Why the lack of gratitude of Raven after the accident with Xavier in the end? The power of Azazel is so exaggerated that becomes impossible to be defeated.Kevin Bacon is a great villain and the insertion in the context of the Cold War and using the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962 as background is a funny joke. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "X-Men: Primeira Classe" ("X-Men: First Class")
__label__7 Overall, this is entertaining and well done. The effects are not revolutionary but at least fit in to the story rather than detract from it. No violence or mayhem - its OK for a younger to general audience. Main fault is the hero Dave played by Jay Baruchel isn't up to the part.The script is pleasant if predictable - does the nerd hero rise to the task and vanquish the evil forces. There could have been more historical witches besides Abigail Williams of Salem. There are some humorous bits but not too many.Acting is better than expected. Nicholas Cage is quite good more serious and less horsey than usual. Monica looks a little older and has too little screen time. Alfred Molina is convincing without being annoying. Alice Krige (Morgana) is good and looks young. Teresa Palmer (Becky) the girlfriend acts and looks like a blonde Kristen Stewart.The main problem is Jay Baruchel (Dave) is a too geeky to the point of spastic sometimes. It is painful to watch him. He lacks charm and charisma nerdy or otherwise. He is not a cute geek. He speaks like he has a speech impediment. Would have been better with someone more like Shia Labeouf, Justin Long or Michael Angarano if they wanted one of the new nerd/geek heroes.
__label__7 What film, filled with fantasy, magic AND physics, mild horror, adventure, humour, great action and special effects? Why it's Disney's The Sorcerer's Apprentice of course. Starring Nicolas Cage and hometown (Montreal/Canadian) boy Jay Baruchel."The Sorcercer's Apprentice" made its Canadian debut on Thursday July 8th, as the opening film feature at the commencement of the 14th edition of the Montreal Fantasia Film Festival, hosted, as it has been for the past several years by Concordia University.In one of the venue's largest theaters, about 700 of us were treated to the screening of said film, in advance of its opening next Wednesday, July 14th.And what a treat it was.After the general Festival opening announcements, Jay Baruchel (who was in attendance) introduced the film to the happy hometown audience. Then we sat back and allowed the magic to unfold.Without giving too much (or anything) away, I can safely say that The Sorcercer's Apprentice was indeed an enjoyable film.Nic Cage made good as the "just a bit" crazy master sorcerer Balthazar Blake, on the quest to find the one who could be the next to acquire Merlin's magic and defeat the evil Morgana.And Baruchel proved to be well cast as the nerdy, endearing, reluctant hero / apprentice.With a nice, balanced blend of action, adventure and pretty cool special effects. The film takes the viewer on a fun ride, reminiscent of classic Disney fun family fare. And it'd also no doubt leave you laughing out loud at some unexpected moments in dialogue.If you enjoyed The National Treasure movies, then you will certainly enjoy The Sorcerer's Apprentice.
__label__7 While it's certainly not a masterpiece, "The Sorcerer's Apprentice" manages to be an enjoyable movie. A consistent movie with some great performances and awesome special effects, it's problems lay in other things.First of all, I'd like to say that I don't think Jay Baruchel is the worst actor ever. He isn't great, sure, and they could have picked another actor, but it definitely doesn't take the enjoyment away from the movie. My main problems with this movie are about it's atmosphere and general feel. What bothers me the most is that it doesn't seem to take itself seriously. Scenes that are supposed to be super serious have the characters laughing as if nothing was at stake, and some parts could have had some more work put on. This takes away the "character" feel, and gives the "actor" feel. Don't get me wrong, a character can laugh during an action scene, but it depends solely on how it's done, and in this movie, it's certainly not done well.I'd recommend this movie if you like a family-friendly fantasy film, and I'd say that if you have the chance to watch it, go for it, but really, don't expect too much.
__label__7 Don't believe any of The negative reviews. This Is a GOOD Movie! I was amazed to see so many negative reviews about a really good movie. My comment is about not believing comments on IMDb. There has been times when I've read positive reviews about a movie, and the move sucked major ass. Now I read negative reviews about a movie that was really good from beginning to end, and it simply amazes me. That's why I've decided to pay no attention to reviews too much and just watch the film and make my own decision on whether its good or not. There are just too many critics and you just can't rely on what you read. Don't get me wrong, some of the reviews are spot on and I find myself in total agreement with some reviews, but this movie was really awesome. I like when a movie keeps my interest the way Alice through the looking glass did. So for anyone looking for a nice escape from reality, don't go by the negative reviews, give this one look. I promise you will not be disappointed.
__label__7 I love Alice in Wonderland - In fact I love most fairy tale/fantasy movies. With the first Tim Burton Alice movie I wasn't disappointed, but the story took me by surprise. The same goes for this movie. But the surprise for me was that I really enjoyed this movie. I wasn't sure what to expect, so I went in not expecting much - and though the story line was a little bland - It was nice to see what became of Alice - Also in this movie, you learn things about people you didn't know. Such as the White and Red Queen's childhood. Take a step through the looking glass and follow Alice through an adventure to save The Mad Hatter's family - In a race to turn back time, Alice goes on another adventure and learns some things that cannot change the past, but can change the present.
__label__7 I couldn't wait to see Shrek the Third, especially since I have such a great love for the second Shrek, I'm just in love with Puss in Boots. But, the trailer looked great and the stories have worked so far, my mom and I saw the premier show today and while the movie has great laughs, there seemed to be something lacking in the Shrek world. I think the characters didn't seem to click as well as they did in the first two. Shrek the Third has the return of the whole cast, including the new heir to the thrown, Arthur.Shrek and Fiona have a problem, Fiona's father, the frog King of Far Far Away, has passed away and now it's up to Shrek to take the crown. But Shrek is too scared to step up and looks to the next man in line, well, actually a teenage, Arthur. Shrek, Puss, and Donkey go to find Artie, but there is one more problem going on, Prince Charming wants his kingdom of Far Far Away back like it was promised to him and he will go through anything to get it back. Fionna and the other princesses are kidnapped while Shrek's life is in danger and they must all pull together to save him in time for Arthur to take over the kingdom.Shrek the Third has great jokes, terrific animation, and lovable characters, especially the character, Merlin, he was just a terrific spoof. But the characters seemed to be lacking the same chemistry as they did in the first two films. I would recommend Shrek the Third, it's a good movie for the family and for a summer movie, because I do guarantee a fun time. I don't know if everyone will agree, but so far I know a few people know that there is something lacking from the world of Shrek.7/10
__label__7 I have just been pleasantly surprised by Shrek 3. Trying to ignore all the hype around it, I tried to watch it (on DVD) as the second sequel to one of my favourite films, nothing more. Although it comes nowhere near the quality of the first film, it does try to recreate its pleasant pacing and isn't overstuffed with easy film/commercial/real life-reference jokes (I'm looking at you, Shrek 2). And if one pops up, than it got more laughs out of me than Far Far Away ever did in Shrek 2. The Medieval high School was just hilarious, especially the mix-up between today's teen slang and Middle English. As an English student, it really appealed to me.I really liked the dialogue between the characters like in Shrek 1, it's something I kind of missed in Shrek 2, where the characters just jumped from one crazy situation to the next with a few one-liners her and there. What I did miss, was the bickering between Puss and Donkey. Both characters do in fact get way too little screen time, and that's a big mistake since both characters were the highlights of Shrek 2. Somewhere near the end they do get in a situation that brings back some of the comedy gold of Shrek 2, but it's too little and too late.All the old characters get to do something funny, but in the end they are all just great to see as old friends you know from the past. It's nice to see Donkey, Puss and Shrek get along so well with each other, but there's nothing more they can do to fill another film. We know the characters, and they have all found a place in the world they live in. I have gotten all I wanted out of the overall storyline, I'm happy with the way things are for the characters now, and I don't mind that the third journey had to replace the "insert joke every few seconds"-mentality of Shrek 2 with a bit more storytelling. There were still plenty of big laughs left, I can tell you.Ultimately, Shrek 2 was funnier, but I think I like Shrek 3 better. I felt that this adventure was more meaningful for all the characters, and I know that this is the part where a lot of critics thought it wasn't necessary. But if you ask me, Shrek 3 was unnecessary. But since they really had to make a Shrek 3, I think they did well to make the adventure a bit more meaningful and make it really count in the end. It's only too bad that the message is the same of the previous two films, we get it already.The only thing I really didn't like was one of the major characters they used to tell us again that you must accept yourself and others as they are. Artie was a really un-Shrek character. His speeches were dull and Justin Timberlake does nothing to make the character more likable. Of course, he has little to work with. I liked Justin timberlake's part better as a poster in Shrek 2 with the text "Sir Justin". It was funnier than anything Artie said or did in Shrek 3. Let Shrek, Donkey or Puss do the talking, dude.As far as I'm concerned, Shrek 3 was an unnecessary sequel that still worked for me with some good humour and the characters being as charming as ever. The story was more meaningful for the main characters. The end of this adventure, even though repeating the message of the previous films, provided me with satisfying closure on the story of the happy Shrek family. Too bad that another unnecessary sequel is coming, undoubtedly with even more hype and more dull characters like Artie. Sadly, the Shrek franchise seems to be the most inspired thing coming from Dreamworks Animations.
__label__7 You know, there are films in which the first frame is clear that they will be so-so. Here the situation is reversed. After seeing the first frame, I immediately realized that it will be very cool.Seriously, I'm all covered with goose bumps when I saw how much it is great. I was just literally shaking when I saw the gorgeous magic. However, better than in this movie magic effects have not been implemented in any fantasy films, it seems to me. I love Warcraft story so much and I think even if you don't know anything about the original story after that film you'll love it.Would certainly recommend to both fans and non-fans alike.
__label__7 When the world of the Orcs Draenor is being destroyed by the evil fel magic that uses life-force, the powerful warlock Gul'dan creates a portal to the world of Azeroth and forms the Horde with members of the Orc clans. He also captures many prisoners to keep the portal. The king of Azeroth Llane Wrynn (Dominic Cooper) and his brother-in-law Anduin Lothar (Travis Fimmel) are informed by the apprentice of magician Khadgar (Ben Schnetzer) that he has found fel magic in dead bodies and the king decides to summon the Guardian of Tirisfal Medivh (Ben Foster) to protect his kingdom. Lothar and Khadgar head Kharazhan to meet Medivh and a shadow points a book to Khagdar and he takes it and hides. Anduin, Khadgar and Medivh and a group of soldiers are attacked by Orcs and they capture the slave Garona (Paula Patton), who is released by King Llane, and she shows the location of the portal. Garona is contacted by the Orc chief of a clan Durotan that wants to meet King Llane to stop the fel magic. Meanwhile Khadgar learns that the gate was opened with the help of someone in Azeroth. Shall King Lllane trust on Garona and Durotan? Whi might be the traitor? "Warcraft" is a highly entertaining fantasy film with an abrupt beginning without development of the situation and characters. Most of the characters are unpleasant and non-charismatic. Maybe the fans of the video game have a big picture of Draenor and Azeroth. But the special effects are top-notch and the story is not bad. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "Warcraft: O Primeiro Encontro de Dois Mundos" ("Warcraft: The First Encounter of Two Worlds")
__label__7 To begin with, I have to say I'm not Warcraft fan. I played the game occasionally, but I never gave too much thought to it nor read anything related to this lore, so I'm not competent to say if movie is faithful to original story or not. But I am fan of epic fantasy and it's my favorite genre. The only thing that somewhat bothered me was that two hours is not nearly enough to tell this story proper. Fact that movie feels incomplete is acceptable, cause it is obvious this is just the base for movies that will follow and this franchise looks very promising. But even just introduction to this world can not fit in only two hours. It needs at least three hours, or even two movies for this part of the story to be told right. Beside that I have no other objections. It is very good movie. But they call it The Lord of the Rings for the new generation. That's where I must draw a line. However good this movie is it is not worthy to be even compared to LOTR. Not only it is blasphemy to say that Warcraft is better or equally good, but they are beyond any comparison. Even after fifteen years nothing came even close to LOTR, let alone overthrow it from the throne of the genre. Maybe this movie standing alone deserves higher rating than what I rated it, and if there was no LOTR maybe I would rate it much higher, but LOTR set standards so high for this genre and in every single aspect it so much better than Warcraft, that on the scale where LOTR is ten, I simply can not give this movie more than seven. Still, I warmly recommend this adventure to all genre lovers and I can not wait for the sequels.7/10
__label__7 The effects, the music and some of the characters like the orcs Durotan & Ogrim or even Garona(a half-orc) are what I like about the movie. The performances are good too but I feel there isn't any one act that I can single out because this movie is heavy on actors in body suits(the orcs) and also lot of effects. The action disappointed me however and it could be because all the fights seem to be happen within a very limited space or at least that's how it looked to me...they give out a visually cramped impression. Even the action choreography could have been better - nice but expected much more. The end hints a sequel so I hope that offers much more bang for the buck, both visually and the action or else, the part two or a three even could have a dismal run at the box office and compared unfairly with other fantasy movies like the hugely successful Hobbit or Lord of the Rings trilogies.
__label__7 The new Terminator wasn't terrible! I'm surprised. Though it had its flaws it was much better then Terminator 3 and Salvation... and I actually enjoyed it mostly. I probably won't be watching it like 30 times like Judgement Day, but its not like I expected it to ever live up to Cameron's work....First off, the action was good and so was the pace, the film never became boring even with how complex the story was so it certainly gets points for that.The film itself runs like the greatest hits of the the franchise which is both good and bad. The pros: Revisiting 1984 (the first terminator timeline) was a lot of fun for obvious reasons.. You get more things like crazy manoeuvres from the T1000 etc and Arnie gets to kick some ass and even be funny at times....The cons: How many times do they have to repeat lines from the previous films? Sarah Conner says: "Come with me if you want to live" Really? Again? Really? Come on, having that as an obligatory line in each movie is actually annoying. "I'll be back" is just like an obligatory oh, we'll just squeeze that in there, the audience will love that! Nope, not really, see in the first Terminator that had impact! Like the impact of a car coming through the wall! This is there just for the sake of it...Aside from that, I think JK Simmons character was borderline pointless, you could nearly have cut him out of the movie and barely noticed! A crying shame for such an excellent actor.. Generally the script could have done with more tweaking, some plot towards the end just seemed outright silly, but I will say the chemistry between Arnie and Emilia was actually pretty good! Overall: It's no Judgement day but you know what, it was actually a decent film and it was great to see Arnie as the Terminator again, and not saying "talk to the hand" . I can see why James Cameron endorsed this as the true sequel to T2...
__label__7 The story starts a bit confusing, but after a short time it's back to business. It's a great addition to the series and it's nice to see Arnold back in this role. The special effects are not always the best, but most parts look great. The new type terminator is great, but the old T800 is still not obsolete. The story is convincing enough and can be the prelude of new additions to this series. I hope Arnold will be part of these. It's a pity 3D is still the norm in most cinemas. This movie is best viewed in normal 2D. It's dark en there are no special benefits in 3D. The movie gives also a good critical note about our dependency of our smart-phones, tablets and the Internet integration. Genisys might be more true that we realize ;)
