__label__5 I was not blown away by this movie like everyone else seems to be. First, the good stuff. There are some good actors in here, especially the actor who plays Jake (though I might be biased, because he was pretty hot), and they all commit to what they're doing and make it believable. As everyone says, the graphics and visuals are pretty freakin' awesome (as well they should be, with the budget of this movie). The world that Cameron creates is stunning, mesmerizing, and pure: the special effects are amazing. Like many, I saw it in 3D and it was good old fashioned movie-going fun. Yay! Okay, now for the not so good parts. As others have stated, the storyline/plot is a little lacking. I had trouble understanding the motivations of many of the characters. Ah, yes, character development - that would have been nice, too. Don't expect any. Yes, it's a recycled and re-used plot: clichéd and often predictable. It seems reminiscent of many great classics, my favorite being "Star Wars." Now I'll be the first to admit that the mythical structure of "Star Wars" was not completely original, but at least it seemed Lucas "made it his own" (to quote American Idol?) with his original characters and unique setting. "Avatar" is practically plagiarism (one line in particular made me want to shout "THE FORCE!" in the middle of the movie). Also- we get practically no character background at all, so we have no idea what makes these people tick (perhaps there would have been more if the edited version wasn't already a staggering 2 hrs 40 min.). Instead, we get one-dimensional, stock characters that had me rolling my eyes underneath my uncomfortable and overpriced 3D glasses. Lastly, the film is doused with lessons in morality from Mr. Cameron; it is a blatant criticism of US foreign policy. Not everyone will pick up on this, which I understand, since most of us want mindless entertainment at the movies. But upon closer review, I don't see how some people cannot see it. One of the "evil" characters actually says: "We'll fight terror with terror!" (Though mind you, they are attacking a planet filled with peaceful inhabitants who have never attacked them, for the simple quest of obtaining a precious metal called...unobtainium...::rolls eyes again::) Now I don't mind a little political satire here and there, but it seems misplaced in what is seemingly intended as a mindlessly entertaining popcorn flick.To give an example of the poor story-telling and lack of motivation: the "evil" humans are attacking the peaceful planet of Pandora in hopes of getting more "unobtainium" (gah it's so cheesy) but Cameron never bothers to tell us WHY. It is barely even mentioned. Is it just pretty and shiny like gold? Or, as another reviewer brilliantly pointed out, this stuff could save lives on Earth for all we know. It is never explained and the movie makers just assume you will accept it and not care what the reason is. I was actually really glad to come to IMDb and find there were others who felt the same way. I don't think it was an awful movie, I just don't think it's worthy of the enormous praise that seems to surround it. Should you see it? Yeah, sure, it's pretty entertaining I guess. And if you are into graphics/special effects, and/or don't mind gaping plot holes, then you'll probably love it.Bottom line: Remember when Lucas revamped the "Star Wars" saga with the three new prequels, and instead of telling a great story with interesting characters like he did with the original trilogy, he got so obsessed with graphics and special effects that it pretty much ruined the whole movie? Yeah, it's kind of like that. I guess they stole that from "Star Wars," too.
__label__5 By the third time a helicopter flew into view, I was exhausted, and dreaded the prospect of yet another interminable and unconvincingly rendered crash scene. The plot was an unappealing mess of recycled ideas. This film brings us yet another revenge story about someone who shares history with Bond but has since turned evil. That was precisely the plot of the last movie - and rather like the last three Star Trek films, most Batman films, the Superman reboot, this year's Avengers, etc.Like last time, the stakes are raised by nebulous and non- frightening, yet world threatening (so we are told, but never shown) computer network technology. The film once again focuses on the question: "are spies still relevant?" I don't find that to be an interesting premise for a Bond film. Why not just assume that the answer is 'yes' and make a fun and smart action movie with a heart? Casino Royale nailed this. If you really must cover the question of whether your main character is relevant, then at least deal with it once and accept the answer! In Skyfall we learned that you still want a man in the field. In this movie, we learn that you still want a man in the field (and, in case anyone was still not getting it, poor Ralph Fiennes in his role as a flaccid M spells it out literally).While I liked both actors involved, I didn't care for the romance - the movie desperately wants to build it up to be something more than an just another Bond girl. That is an admirable idea, but since the result pales in comparison to the stellar romance in Casino Royale, it seems totally unconvincing when Bond sacrifices his entire career for her at the end. Holy moly - Bond settles down? For THIS girl? What an ending to Craig's character arc that started with Vesper's death (so much more meaningful than anything in any of the other Craig Bond films). Bam, all his emotional problems are solved, because he met a hot blonde. "I've got something better to do than all this!" (throws gun away, gets into car with whatshername). Gee, great ending.All the interesting plot developments from Casino Royale and (and even Quantum of Solace to some extent), such as Bond's emotional state after losing Vesper and the Quantum organization, are chucked out the window. Skyfall discarded Quantum in favor of a good idea (Bond/M son/mother relationship) and a bad one ("is MI6 still relevant?"). Now, Quantum is back... Kinda. This time, it forms no threat at all - you see, it turns out this OTHER organization that THIS movie is about is even moar powerfuller. And it was really this other, super duper evil organization all along. Muahaha!That is a tiresome plot twist if ever I've seen one. It completely missed the mark for me; it's weak to try and make your own plot look better by retroactively stating that all villains of the previous movies were really just pawns in this guy's game of chess.And that's not the only aspect of Bond history that is severely diminished by this film. In Skyfall, we learned about Bond's youth, spent with an old Scottish dude named McAngus. I think. And, of course, his relationship with M.This time, however, it turns out that Bond actually grew up in the Bavarian Alps with a couple of yodeling Germans named Oberhausen. Errr? Am I the only one confused here? (Possibly.)Bond turns out to have a sort of surrogate brother, who is very blond, very German, and very jealous. Oh and he also happens to be a supervillain, with an enormous army, who somehow managed to stay absolutely hidden for all these years. There is a powerful and compelling reason for his having all these skills and resources: it's convenient for the plot.And so, all previous Bond movies are reduced to one large scam operation, a plan by an Alpine superhero that makes absolutely no sense, in a failed attempt to give this movie a great villain. Christoph Waltz is a joy to watch, but he is never allowed to be a real threat. The man gets little to work with, as did Javier Bardem in the last one - criminally underused, awesome actors.The film's tone was confusing. There is one gruesomely violent scene involving eyeballs - I don't enjoy seeing such aggressive violence, although here I seem to be in a vanishingly small minority. Call me old fashioned, but I was always happy that Bond films used polite violence: gentle fist fights until one guy faints, or perhaps someone shoots a gun and somewhere else, far away, someone falls to the floor.Putting my personal feelings aside, it was jarring to have this scene be followed up by a cartoonish fist fight on a train, after which the eye-ripping guy is yanked out of a train by a rope, but not before realizing his predicament like Wile E. Coyote hanging over the ravine and saying "shit!". Is this a corny spy movie with train fights a la Bond vs Jaws? Where Bond leisurely glides a crashing airplane around for a few minutes and then humorously lands precisely on top of the bad guy's car? Or is it a somber drama about an aging man's career in a time when nobody knows whether spies are still relevant? Or does it want to be a raw, violent gangster film like Goodfellas, reveling in the sight of bad guys proving their credentials by maiming others?Finally, I found the camera work jarring in many action scenes - shaky cam, etc. This may have been (partly) due to my sitting in the fourth row, though.
__label__5 As I was walking down the stairs and out of the theater, I was trying as hard as I could to pull a smile out of my face. My friends tensely asked if I liked it, I said "Yes, of course!!" They nodded weakly in response. On the way home, I kept thinking to myself. "You liked it! C'mon! It's Spiderman!" Now, it's two days later, the euphoria of waiting for Spidey to come out has subsided, and I've begun to look at this flick a bit more (shall I say it?) critically.It's plain to see that Sam Raimi is a fantastic director. He knows when to do what and realizes that he is making a superhero movie, which is why the Spider-man movies have done so well. It's not like the recent Batman and Superman who try to hide the fact that they're just fun superhero films. Raimi knows his material and embraces it. The effects were astounding as usual. Spiderman's one-on-one fight with the Sandman and the crane scene being the major highlights. I thought these features would outbalance the weaker spots of the film, but unfortunately they did not.As far as acting goes, I'm surprised to say that Topher Grace stole the show. I remember how outraged everyone was when he was chosen, but obviously someone knew what they were doing when they let him on as Venom. James Franco and Kirsten Dunst played their usual selves (I can't help but think of Dunst dreaming of getting back to work with Sofia Coppola while doing these films). However, Tobey Maguire REALLY disappointed me. I've always thought he was so great at Spidey, which is undeniable in the first two films and even in this one...when he has his red suit on. Maguire is a one note actor, at least as far as Spidey goes. He just could not pull off the black suit; he wasn't good at being bad. Then came the horrific bridge scene with MJ. Along with most other people I've talked to, my entire theater erupted in laughter when he started crying. It was just...sad...and not in the way the writers intended it.Speaking of the writing, I hate to be beating a dead horse, but c'mon: 3 villains, Sandman's background, trouble with MJ, Harry's changing attitudes, 2 different Spidermans, competition at the Bugle, Gwen Stacy, etc. It was just WAY TOO MUCH! Even if you had four hours, it's just too much to cram into the audience in one sitting. The great thing about Spiderman 2 (the best of the trilogy) is how focused it was. You had the inner struggle, the villain and his relationship with MJ. There it was! Beautifully filmed and written. From the first 15 minutes of Spiderman 3, I knew that all these parallel story lines were going to crash within the next two hours. The sequence that shows how far they've fallen from part two is the whole emo/hair in the eyes/eyeliner/oh so cool "bad" Spiderman scenes. The first few minutes of this was funny in the same way that the "Raindrops are Falling on my Head" scene in part two was great, but this time they stretched a good thing way too far. This whole sequence is what sticks in my mind and refuses to let me think that the film was just as great as the rest.I tried to like it! I really did! I just can't fool myself any longer. Some critics like Peter Travers for Rolling Stone are saying that we can let this one slide because it's Spiderman, but I couldn't disagree more. Spiderman 3 missed the mark and, deep down inside, we all know it.
__label__5 "Spider-Man 3" comes really close to being as difficult to follow as an "X-Men" movie. Well, maybe not that close since an "X-Men" movie requires the viewer to try to follow the lives of at least a dozen different characters. But I think it was a mistake for the makers to have Spidey contend with three different villains in one film. Unlike the two superior predecessors, it felt like they were trying to cram three movies into one with "Spider-Man 3".I was most disappointed with the use, or misuse, of the Harry Osborne/Green Goblin character. We know that Harry must become the Green Goblin if he is going to have the ability to take on his super hero nemesis Peter Parker/Spider-Man. The makers of "Spider-Man 3" waste no time in picking up where "Spider-Man 2" left off. Not only does the movie not allow the viewer to observe Harry's transformation into the Green Goblin, but Harry doesn't even dress appropriately for his role. He wears a black uniform and never becomes the public menace his father did. I was looking forward to the Daily Bugle covers about the return of the menace of the Green Goblin. Instead Harry's campaign of revenge against Peter is quickly side tracked by a bout with amnesia after suffering a blow to the head in a fall during his first fight with Peter. After all, the film needs to introduce two more villains, Sandman and Venom, before it ends.Whereas, in the first two films the viewer really gets to know the Norman Osborn and Otto Octavius characters, in "Spider-Man 3" the length of time devoted to the villains amounts to a movie short. Along the way Peter Parker must also contend with his dark side and his troubles in his relationship with his love Mary Jane Watson. Meanwhile, the landlord's daughter, Ursula, is back to amuse viewers once again with her adolescent crush on Pete. Add to all this the time needed to develop the Sandman and Venom villains, plus Gwen Stacy, and I was left wondering exactly what the movie is about."Spider-Man 3" is big budget extravaganza that is out of focus in the areas of character and plot development. While it has its laugh inducing comic moments and the best special effects sequences money can buy, it has little else to offer. While I really wanted to see the first two movies again, because I enjoyed the transformation of the main characters into super heroes and villains, it feels like the only reason to see "Spider-Man 3" is to check out the special effects again. If there are more Spider-Man films made, and there is no reason to believe there won't be given the money involved in releasing another film, then I would hope that the makers would simplify the story once again and do what made the first two films so enjoyable to watch.
__label__5 being a huge Marvel fan, and also Josh Whedon fan I was super excited for him to come back and do another Avengers movie. The first film was pretty brilliant. But with this film, Whedon wasn't given much air to breathe, with constant Studio interference and orders of certain shots to be re- done, or scrapped if not worse. Put in.So, you thinking why is this film so bad, if you are a fan, you should love it. Well the film changes pace, very quickly and abruptly, which is a poor sign of movie making. The Characters do not act like they would usually act in the same scenario, the progression of the story is all over the place, Scene's that just have no weight or meaning to the film, but in there because it looks cool or is setting up another independent super hero movie, the Villain that is so smart, but doesn't use the internet and his ability to control everything just to wipe out everybody, but rather has this ridiculously stupid plan. The Hero's that are suppose to be smart, intelligent and some what Spanish do not see all of the stupid plot hole that get infiltrated. The fighting was also a problem for me, it was the same. Once you saw it in the first Avengers, you see exact same thing in the second one too, and it doesn't even change a little.Overall, this film is bunched up due to the constant interference by Studio as Josh has stated so many times now.
__label__5 It hurts to rate this so poorly, but it certainly deserves the low marks. There were so many things that ruined this movie for me.1) The Storytelling - Or lack thereof. There was not a compelling story to be told here. Ultron wants to blow up the world, the Avengers try to stop him. That's all the audience ever really knows about this story and it felt flat and unfulfilling.2) Plot? - The movie opens with our heroes in the middle of a battle for reasons that are largely unimportant. That pretty much sums up this whole film3) The Love Interest - Totally underdeveloped. We're basically told by the script writer that these two people are in love, but never are we SHOWN that they're falling in love. It rang completely hollow.4) The Humor - There were WAY too many jokes in this movie, and that wouldn't have been all that bad if so many of them weren't eye rollers. Many of them left me groaning.5) Ultron - This guy appears out of nowhere and is woefully underdeveloped. Plus, he's supposed to be some kind of AI but he's constantly cracking off stupid one-liners and making facial expressions that I thought were inconsistent with what and who he was supposed to be.6) Character Overload - There were WAY too many characters to do any of them any justice. I would have liked the film to focus on a smaller group of characters and their relationships with one another, instead, we got a who's who of the entire Marvel universe leaving a lot to be desired.I could go on, but my heart is still aching and I don't want to talk about it anymore. I see that a lot of people liked it and I'm happy that they did. I only wish it hadn't been such a colossal disappointment for me.
__label__5 My favorite part of the novel Harry Potter and the Halfblood Prince, which was probably my favorite novel in the series, was all of the subplots. We had the drama behind the Minister Magic and relations with the Muggle government. We had the quite humorous interactions between Dumbledore and the Dursleys. We had the whole memory of Voldemort's family - really quite crucial to the seventh book - and the memories of Voldemort finding the other Hogwarts founder items to use as Horcruxes. We had Bill and Fleur's relationship. We had Tonks's depression and patronus change, which led to Tonks and Remus's relationship. We had lots of interaction and conflict between Harry's house elves. We have Snape's constant suspicion of Harry. We have the complications with Madame Rosmerta. And we had so much in the end - Harry being trapped under the Invisibility Cloak during Dumbledore's death, an entire battle at Hogwarts, and Dumbledore's elaborate and meaningful funeral.All of that was completely and entirely omitted from the movie.What we do have is a weak plot involving an old Potions textbook that is featured about two times before Harry's friends convince him to do away with the book. Snape never punishes Harry, only reveals his identity in a brief scene at the end. The Order of the Phoenix is not mentioned at all throughout the entire movie, and neither is Grimmauld. We have a nearly sickening amount of teenage hormonal relationships - while some moments like harry comforting Hermione and Ron whispering Hermione's name in the hospital wing were well done, the growing relationship between Ginny and Harry was awkwardly portrayed. Additionally, they cut out the entire end scene - battle and all. One would think that a battle scene would attract even more moviegoers to the film, and the battle provided filmmakers a chance to show minor characters who weren't heavily featured. No, the movie ends with a weak scene showing the three main characters in a tower talking about next year. The same amount of foreshadowing could have been done within canon - Harry telling Ginny that they couldn't see each other anymore at Dumbeldore's funeral. But that certainly didn't happen.Oh, and do you remember the Burrow burning down? No? Well, it happens. It's a great scene, actually, very well done, but not remotely canon. The Burrow is integral to the plot of the seventh book. Let's see how they pull that one off.Actually, they seem to have been pretty obsessed with fire in this film. Hagrid's hut burns down as well.The cinematography, though, was excellent. One of my favorite scenes showed Harry walking up a staircase and Draco walking up a parallel staircase in the background. The lighting is effective, the various focus effects are absolutely magnificent, and the soundtrack, as always, is excellent. The film is a visual pleasure - perhaps lacking in action, but it is one of those films that one could watch several times extracting details from the masterful sets.
__label__5 This movie tries so hard... and falls flat on almost every level. It is further proof that DC may be a master of the animated movie and they may be brilliant in the way they approach many of the TV properties but when it comes to movies they still can't pull it together. This is a long movie that feels even longer. Ben Affleck does a GREAT job as Batman, that doesn't mean I LOVED this Batman (I did not) but he does a great job and any problems there are with the character fall on the writer, producers and director. The problem with this Batman is no that he is brutish and violent and angry.. it's that he's not smart. He's not strategic and intellectual , brilliant and a world class detective. He is consumed by anger, hatred, vengeance and brutality (and not in a good way). He is blind in his rage and directs it towards Superman.The ending, which should be amazing and outstanding fell flat in both viewings I went to. One a sneak peek and one to which I had purchased tickets on opening night and went to see with friends. The ending should be exciting and fun and amazing.. and it just... wasn't. It completely fails on every single level.You should leave the theater with your mouth wide open from awe unable to withstand the anticipation of the next chapter... most people who were leaving the theater were tired, worn down and felt like they had gone a few rounds with Superman. The movie is tedious and boring with characters that I just did not care about at all. Oh no Louis is in trouble... oh look Batman is Angry, oh look Superman is Angry, oh my Martha is Angry. The problem with a bunch of characters who are essentially the same in attitude is that you just don't care.The preview of the justice league, which people know is coming was forced as is but would have made a magnificent after credit sequence. It would have at least of given people something to talk about on the way out rather then just shaking their heads in disappointment or yawning.I liked Man of Steel, I didn't love it but I liked it. This was no where near as good. While I have been a long , long time DC fan and unlike many fan boys have little problem with taking some creative liberties with characters (there are things that work well in years of comics that don't translate on screen), there are things that should evolve but not completely change. Doomsday was sadly, a disaster. In the comic he is a Goliath , matching Superman's physical might and that's pretty much it. His punches are so powerful they shatter buildings (which Snyder seems to really, really, really like to do).. there was no need to alter him to the point they did.This movie would have been better served had Lex made a clone from Zod's body of Bizarro (makes more sense) and had it been only Batman and Superman, getting to know one another, learning about each other, discovering their differences and ultimately their similarities as they came together in the end to defeat a Superman level menace. After the credits , an email to Wonder Woman with Batman letting her know that he has discovered who she is. You could even have had wonder woman in it, she was a delightful character (in this film) and I enjoyed her scenes (she gets little screen time but I felt was one of the best characters). As it is it just falls flat.I enjoyed one of the sequences with who I believe was the Flash (doesn't say) but I do wish it was Grant (CW) as he is the true flash. This movies wrongs can still be righted in the next one and I will likely see it when it arrives but I am not looking forward to it and have no real anticipation of it's arrival. If I got word it was canceled I would shrug my shoulders and hope they got it right next time around.
__label__5 Let's be honest! We were all, even marvel fan boys, waiting for this movie. The two most well known superheroes fighting... what could go wrong!? A lot. The positives:1. Batman & Alfred; Batfleck was amazing! Ben Affleck represented a batman that is damaged, changed his moral code(which if they play their cards right could be a center piece of solo batman films) and made him more bad-ass because of it. 2. The action: Amazing Action! It's thrilling, exciting and beautifully shot. That is what Zack does though and I expected nothing less. 3. Wonder woman: Supringsly well done. Her as Diana prince was maybe a bit stiff sometimes but she can make the character her own along the way. I trust her that much. Her as wonder woman was amazing!! I got chills when she joined the fight!4. Cinematography is general. It is a beautiful film to look at. Nicely shot and as I said the action is amazing. The CGI in certain places are a bit "meh" and one shot did take me out of the movie, but that's it. Now the bad stuff why this movie went downhill:1. the editing/pacing: Guys, this movie was a mess. The movie begins great with an introduction of batman and some stuff you saw in the trailer. Then we go to a scene... which tells us a story then it goes to another scene. You're invested in that particular and then it jump cuts to another scene. You are seeing 4 different story lines play out in 5 minute scenes after each other. As a general movie goer-ER you will lose track. As a DC-fan, as myself, I could understand everything but i needed to bring all my previous knowledge to actually understand. Really bad pacing2. Superman: Not everyone will agree on this, but I think they handled superman horribly. He needs to be symbol of hope and yet he is never exactly that. There was certain montage, where it should shown that he was, but i never felt that he was. This representation was too dark. This was also more of a batman movie with superman playing a small part in that, yet batman's world is too dark for superman. If you want to combine their worlds, let Batman play a role in superman's world. 3. Lex Luther. I hated his representation of the power hungry and menacing villain. He played mark suckable and was a complete miscast. I don't care if he was the son of the "real" lex Luther. It didn't fit. 4. Doomsday: A complete waste of a great story arc. Why did they bring him in while there was so much going on.. 5. The justice league set up: It felt rushed. The way they shoehorned all the other characters in was lazy writing. 6. the whole motivation of superman fighting batman. batman's motivation was clear and great. Superman's was horrible. They were one conversation away from understanding each other, but they had to fight of course.7. Many many plot holes, but i cant go into those because i don't wanna spoil the whole movie. verdict: If you love flashy action.. go watch it in Max. If you like great story.. wait till it releases on blue-ray.6 out of 10 for a mediocre movie that should been an epic man. I was so disappointed. I see so many DC fans raging this movie was epic, but we're dealing with the phantom menace effect.
__label__5 Bryan Singer has made it no secret that he was going to make this film a sequel of sorts to the first two Superman films which starred Christopher Reeve. Which I though was an interesting idea even though I thought Superman 2 was lame. However, I thought the premise of Superman returning after a long absence was a great idea, unfortunately Singer's heavy reliance on the first two films really crippled this film.Some minor film details are included in my comments below which may hint at spoilers... **********I attended a screening of Superman Returns last night, and even though I'm not the biggest Superman fan, I was REALLY looking forward to seeing this film. I have to admit I had misgivings about the casting of Kate Bosworth and Brandon Routh because there were too young. However Brandon Routh was the BEST Superman yet and Kate Bosworth really did very well as Lois Lane. Kevin Spacey was GREAT as Lex Luthor, especially when he and Routh (briefly) shared the screen. However Parker Posey was wasted in a dull cliché. The opening credit sequence was amazing. Hearing the original Superman theme gave me chills. The next 45 minutes of the film were awesome. Lex's reintroduction demonstrates at his ruthlessness even on a smaller scale. Clark Kent/Superman's return home was thoughtful and well done, as was the reintroduction to the crew at the Daily Planet. However, because Singer assumes that we all saw the first two films he apparently does not feel the need to develop any of the characters outside of Superman and Lois. Lex Luthor's character is just a caricature of a mustache twirling villain, and even though Spacey does this very well, it's hard to take him seriously as a threat. His "evil" plan is nothing more than a rehash of Gene Hackman's Lex Luthor the 1978 film except using crystals instead of nukes. There is NO REAL logic behind his motives at all if you think about it. More importantly you just don't care if he succeeds or not. Lex Luthor's character is only validated in the very brief face to face confrontation with Superman at the end. Let me say that Lex/Superman confrontation at the end is one of the BEST scenes in the whole film and further proof of wasted potential. Lex Luthor shows how truly evil he can be, and again Spacey does an amazing job here. The on screen presence of Brandon Routh and Kevin Spacey together was SO good. Routh could really hold his own next to Spacey. Too bad Singer couldn't have found a way to elaborate on this scene or do something more interesting with the characters than just having Luther (figuratively) twirl his mustache and have Superman pine over Lois Lane the whole film.Overall, this film is bound in a weak story with plot holes big enough to drive a truck through. The story relies too heavily on the Superman/Lois Lane love story so much so that the rest of the film, and the other characters, just feel like an after thought.
__label__5 "Superman Returns" is a competent movie, generally very well produced, directed and cast. But it didn't quite gel for me. I thought it dragged at points, as Superman got bogged down with pining over Lois Lane instead of saving the day. Alas, I thought the dialogue just wasn't sharp enough to sustain these heavy-handed emotional scenes; what sort of catchphrase is "I'm always around," anyway? Here's what I did enjoy. The flight scenes were beautiful; Superman cut a very majestic figure as he soared across skylines and starscapes. The set design was great, too, creating a modern feel with hints of the Art Deco style I associate with Superman. And I appreciated the performances of Spacey, Bosworth and Langella. Routh had a curiously small role, especially as Clark Kent, so I had trouble judging whether he was wooden or actually good at playing a modest hero.Here's what I enjoyed less. Luthor's plan simply didn't interest me. I found the whole notion of growing a giant crystal island very surreal and not too threatening. Also, he poses a fairly boring threat to Superman. If Luthor's got Kryponite, Superman is helpless; if he hasn't got Kryponite, he's helpless. These two legendary antagonists can never really meet on equal terms. Thus, most confrontations between them must inevitably be one-sided. (Read: boring.) I also had a mixed reaction to the CGI effects. Some were wonderful, and others looked artificial despite being very detailed. The soundtrack was great, of course, with the classic John Williams theme wisely reused - though maybe they trotted it out once too often? The conflict involving Lois Lane's family life was pretty good, though I felt that the revelations about her son, which I'll avoid spoiling here, undermined much of the potential tension and drama in the story. I'm very glad, though, that Lois' boyfriend was depicted as a smart, handsome and capable guy instead of some dumb and unworthy "straw man" rival to Superman.I noticed that Roger Ebert's two-star review of "Superman Returns" is already taking a lot of criticism on this site. Though I think he was perhaps a tad too harsh, I have to say that I agree with many of his criticisms. His headline for the review, "Atlas Yawned," provoked a sympathetic laugh from me. I guess I can only hope for a sequel with more action, more oomph, more...Super-heroism?
__label__5 After languishing in the disappointment that was Brett Ratner's X3, I made it a point to walk into Superman Returns with low expectations. They should have been lower. It isn't that the film is outright terrible (though it has many glaring flaws); rather, I had unknowingly outgrown the Superman myth. And considering that Bryan Singer offers nothing original to the new installment, I think America will find its timeless icon a little dated.First, there is the castingthe most important part of any film attempting to match an original that has become so iconic, its actors have replaced the comic book characters in America's collective conscience. Newcomer Brandon Routh most definitely looks the part (besides being too young), but has half the screen presence of Christopher Reeve. Although Superman isn't known for his emotional instability, it seems that Singer played it safe by limiting Routh's range to avoid having the new Superman give a poor performance. Instead, we are left with almost no performance.Kate Bosworth is equally as bland as Lois Lane (and again, too young for the role). And with her lifeless brown hair that left me aching for her typical screen blond, she isn't even much to look at. Kevin Spacey's performance as Lex Luther also left something to be desiredthough I'm not sure exactly what. He's hardly the lovable Lex that Gene Hackman played. The rest of the cast was decent, with the exception of Frank Langella. His dull portrayal of Perry White made me wish they had grabbed J. K. Simmons straight out of Spiderman to talk about his barber.Though suspension of disbelief is required for nearly every comic book film, the plot of Returns is so illogically strung together I had trouble letting go. At first my mind started asking questions that shouldn't be asked of Superman. What did Superman eat while he flew around the universe looking for Krypton? Does Superman need to eat? How does he breathe in space (which, to be fair, is a question that applies to the original films as well)? Once Lex Luther's plan emerged, however, I moved past the (unfair) premise questions and asked some legitimate questions. Without spoiling the plot, I'll just say that there are ways for Lex to hatch his plan for world domination without killing billions people. I didn't buy into the "necessary sacrifice."On the upside, Singer's direction is glossy and competent. The score works well thanks to a liberal sprinkling of John Williams' original theme song, the special effects are, of course, impressive, and the action sequences especially stand out. Overriding the tension generated by well-staged and edited action, however, is a lack of any real sense of peril. And surprisingly, the pace is rather slow throughoutwhich is only made tolerable by some scattered comic relief.Singer takes an unexpected turn toward the end of the film when he emphasizes the parallels between Superman and Jesus to the point where the audience wonders if Returns is simply another allegory in the vein of The Chronicles of Narnia. While the comparison is interesting, one can only wonder how far it can be stretched considering the Superman in this rehash stands for truth, justice, and irresponsible romances (reflecting the plot's only surprise).The bottom line for any resurrection of a classic film or series is there better be a damn good reason. In the case of Batman Begins, Christopher Nolan ripped the decaying body of Batman from the grave, and gave him the breath of life. Batman became complex, raw, and 100% real. Although Superman is an entirely different beastone who is too busy saving people to reflect on his lack of flawstoday's audiences expect their superheroes to be tad more human. Unfortunately for Returns, in an overexerted effort to pay tribute to Richard Donner, a super-cautious Singer reanimates Superman like a puppeteer; but fails to give him life.5.5/10
__label__5 I was finally able to screen the newest adventure from Warner Bros. and DC Comics Films, "Superman Returns," starring relative unknown Brandon Routh in the role the late Christopher Reeve rode to stardom upon.Now, some 28 years after Richard Donner's classic "Superman" hit the big screen, director Bryan Singer ("X-Men," "X-Men 2"), with a trillion dollar budget, tries his hand at helming the ultimate graphic novel adventure.Sadly, Singer is no Donner.While wonderful to look at, and sometimes interesting to ponder, this newest version of the saga of the Man of Steel leaves one with an impressive vapidity; a passive disinterest and an emotional detachment which overwhelms one with a cold, empty feeling.In an effort to do what last year's "Batman Begins" did to the Caped Crusader franchise  bring a new dark, brooding vitality to the series, "Superman Returns" succeeds only in making one wish for the deft hand of Donner, as well as the acting ability of Reeves, Margot Kidder (as Lois Lane), Ned Beatty (as a stupidly evil henchman, Otis) and especially Gene Hackman (as the best Lex Luthor ever).The plot takes place supposedly five years after the action in Superman II (from 1981), when scientists discovered proof of such a world, Superman journeyed there (evidently without telling anyone of his plans) to find if it was possibly a living planet. It wasn't so now he's back  but things have changed in his absence.Mainly, that his love interest, Lois Lane (Kate Bosworth, "Win A Date With Tad Hamilton"), is involved with the nephew of Daily Planet editor-in-chief Perry White, Richard (James Marsden, who played Scott Summer/Cyclops in the "X-Men" films) and they now have a young son about five-years-old.He won't let go, however, even flying to her mansion to spy on and stalk her  in a very unSuperman-like scene.Despite that last heartbreak, it's Lane's famous "Daily Planet" editorial, "Why The World Doesn't Need Superman," for which she will collect a Pulitzer Prize (huh?), that really stings Clark/Man of Steel.That's one of the first problems I had with this version. In the first two films (nothing matters after part two), Superman saved Lane's life at least four times (from a helicopter plummeting of a skyscraper; from being buried alive in the desert; from a plunging elevator in the Eiffel Tower; and from going over the cliff at Niagara Falls. After all of that, she writes an article saying no one NEEDS him anymore?!Then, in a nice bit of CGI work, the powerful hero rescues her again (from a plane plunging to earth), stopping the craft from crashing nose-first on the infield of a Major League baseball stadium. It's truly an awesome scene.Meanwhile, in the frozen North, evil madman Luthor (Kevin Spacey, Academy Award winner for "The Usual Suspects" and "American Beauty") is out of prison and raiding Superman's Fortress of Solitude, making off which his collection of priceless crystals.Routh is handsome all right, and looking close enough to Reeve (except his eyes are CGI'd blue from their natural brown) to keep us comfortable (his voice, though, is creepily similar to the late actor); so I have no real problem with him in the lead role.Likewise, Sam Huntington as bumbling photographer Jimmy Olson, was adequately goofy in comic relief; while Frank Langella (as blustery Perry White) is good in just about any role he plays (see "Dracula" and "Dave" for proof of this).The inclusion of Jack Larson (the original Jimmy Olson in the 1950s series), and Noel Neill (who played one of the Lois Lanes in that show) in cameo roles as a bartender and a rich, dying widow, respectively, was also a nice touch.The other parts, however, do concern me. Bosworth is just too spineless and ineffective to be a hard-nosed reporter for a major newspaper, as well as the only real confidant our hero has in his life. To me, the spunky Parker Posey (who portrays Kitty Kowalski, Luthor's gun moll) would have made a much better Lois.As for Spacey as Luthor, well, to me, he just is not evil enough. Gene Hackman had a deliciously devious demeanor, coupled with a madman's desire to rule the world  with basically realistic plans to do so. Spacey seems more of an annoyance than a real threat.Another crime this movie commits, is that it goes on and on  at least 20 minutes after it should have concluded. Now there will be fans out there who will no doubt blast me for this opinion, claiming how I dare I compare the 1978 and '81 films to this one.To those detractors, I simply say that this new picture invites comparisons, utilizing the same opening credits, the same theme song, archival footage of Marlon Brando (as Jor-El, speaking dialogue from the original film), even the same scene where Superman flies Lois around New York (the only thing missing is Kidder's corny voice-over).
__label__5 This is my first review in IMDb (my first port-of-call for movie opinions) and unfortunately it's simply a reaction to what has been, this morning, a disappointing experience.Unlike Casino Royale, which was as direct as a bullet from a gun, QoS spends a sizeable chunk of it's running time meandering aimlessly.Firstly though, the intro car chase is in the style of an agitated, edit-obsessed director which means the entire scene is viewed in short random bursts from a multitude of angles - Fine, if that's your bag.What follows is a series of action set pieces which are at turns exciting, manic and messy, but after which the film becomes flat and a little direction-less. That's not to say that there is little in the way of bullets and babes but the simple facts are that the set pieces are really not very exciting, and worse still the characters are pretty bland, in comparison to those in Casino Royale.You'll struggle to think of a main bond villain that is less interesting than Dominic Greene, and agent Fields is utterly pointless in every aspect other than brief eye-candy.As is mentioned in other reviews it is Judy Dench and Daniel Craig that keep this movie from leaving the tracks entirely but it doesn't bode well for future outings if this is to be the new template.In short Casino Royale rejuvenated the franchise but Quantum Of Solace has gone some way to spoiling it's success.The theme song isn't too good either, and just like the film it gets a tad messy at times. Get Chris Cornell back for the next one.
__label__5 This film could have been so good, but Marc Forster's clichéd and ham-fisted direction completely ruined it for me. To be fair, his handling of the quieter moments between the action was adequate, but he clearly has no grasp of how direct action sequences, which are clearly central to any good Bond. I'm afraid the 'shake the camera and cut at least once a second' school of action direction doesn't really cut it.It's tragic really, as the setup and the stunts for the sequences looked pretty promising, but you had to look pretty hard to tell once Mr. Forster's hopeless direction kicked in. Such a waste.I think I'll hold out for the special edition DVD - you know - the non-directors cut!
__label__5 Let me say from the start that Daniel Craig is one of the finest actors having played James Bond, maybe the best since Sean Connery. Judy Dench is also the best M. ever, and the idea of a female M. is just genial. Yet, the series are in trouble, and something needs to be done to save the series from the downturn that seems worst than the world economy.I will call the film QOS because the name requires a non-native English speaker to use a dictionary to understand it - and this is one of the many small problems that make a big disappointment. Another one is the unconvincing evil character. Another one is the lack of global threats in the intrigue - to justify the immense destruction and number of widows and orphans left on the track a James Bond movie must invent something more interesting than the water supply of Bolivia revealed as the big motivation way into the film. The action scenes themselves are well made, but too fast, too many, to confuse to help the viewers understand what is going on and care beyond the pure aesthetics of destruction.Bringing on the set fine actors and redesigning the character into a human being with real feelings as well as into a darker Bond fit to the world of today is a great idea. It is not enough though. Bringing good script writers is even more important.Oh, and yes, please bring back Q. and please have Bond say at least once 'My name is Bond. James Bond'. There is no such thing as a good Bond film without those.
__label__5 I am sorry to say that I felt this film missed the mark. I really enjoyed Casino Royale, though I did not think it was perfect, but after watching Quantum of Solace I appreciate it far more. It's not the lack of one lines, innuendo or the lack of appreciation of the fine things Bond was known for, no the problem with this film was its pacing and at times dreadful editing choices.I was surprised that a film that boasts a 'character' director could produce a film with such lack of character. Generally you don't get a feel of anyone in this movie, bar the character of Camille, everyone else seems spare and underused and you find you just don't care. Which is exactly how you feel about the action after the first 30 minutes, to the point where it becomes painful for all the wrong reasons. The action is not even as gritty as Casino Royale, instead it feels like Bourne for babies, loads of action with no guts. At least with the action in Casino Royale you felt that the film makers were trying to make a comment on the brutality of Bonds world, a idea from Fleming that Bond is as bad as those he hunts. Sadly this film does not have that, though I really wanted it to.I certainly did not think I would say this but bring back Martin Campbell for the next one, please. Sorry Mark you missed the mark on this one.Yesshhh indeed
__label__5 It is usually a bad sign if a popcorn movie like this clocks in at well over two hours. the amazing thing about that running time is, that not a single plot point is resolved in this film. Everything that is brought into the movie as being there for our hero's to overcome, is still there when the credits roll those ONE HUNDRED AND FIFTY MINUTES finally end. Two and a half hours, just to set up a third movie? I'm sorry, but that has to be the biggest rip off since Manhatten and those beads and trinkets used to buy it.To be sure the cast is still beautiful, (At least the leads are) and the action comes fast and furious, but it leads absolutely nowhere. The first movie was a complete film. There was a resolution at the end, and if there never had been a sequel made, it would not have affected what people thought of that movie one bit. This film requires you to see the unreleased (and let me add, not due to be released for almost another year.) Watching Johnny Depp act in these films is worth the price of admission, and its not a bad movie, just a pointless one. Personally I now know I could have saved my time and money, waited till next summer, and gone to the ACTUAL sequel, not this clumsy attempt to pad this into a five hour epic. Sheesh they were able to tell Gone With the Wind, Ben Hur, or Lawrence of Arabia in far less time then the five hours that these two movies will eventually need to resolve issues that everyone in the audience already knows the ending to.
__label__5 I wanted to like this movie. Admittedly, I went in with high expectations, but I thought the names behind the movie, the actors and the beautiful trailer justified my high hopes.And - at first - I thought it was all going to work out. For the first 40 minutes or so, this movie is awesome. Krypton, an ALIENated Clark Kent doing odd jobs on earth, a confused boy trying to cope with his powers...Some reviewers have bashed the movie for being too serious, but there's nothing wrong with a little seriousness, or a little reverence towards the character. In the first half, I think the tone is perfect. A little dark, sure, but it all feels like we're building up towards something truly awesome. Then, kind of suddenly, the main story with Zod and the action starts. And, as much as I love action movies, I really wished it hadn't.When the serious actions starts, all coherent story telling stops. In the blink of an eye the movie goes from feeling like a sci-fi Batman Begins to Transformers 3 minus the nuanced story telling. Suddenly Superman is here and we get these big sweeping beautiful scenes, and they're just completely boring and out of place. And I don't even want to talk about the totally contrived Lois Lane - Superman romance. (Lots of sighs, and "WTF?" comments at the theater I was in).I kept waiting for it to recapture the tone of the first half, but the action just keeps getting bigger and dumber. In the middle of the unending action spectacle of the second half, I actually nodded off.This movie had the creative talent, and the actors to make something really great. And I feel like without a Michael Bay explosion quota maybe they could have done it here... But in the end this is a missed opportunity.
__label__5 If you've never read the novel by C.S. Lewis, you will probably think "Prince Caspian" is a terrific movie. However, if you enjoyed reading the book, prepare to be disappointed.The most beastly fault in the movie is the portrayal of several key characters. Peter is made out to be a whining, ego-centric child as opposed to his true character as the High King of Narnia. In the opening scenes, Peter is found fighting other children at a train station in London. You find out that Peter started the fight because he doesn't like being treated like a child, a theme which would continue throughout the movie.Caspian is portrayed as a true adolescent; rebelling against Peter's decisions and seeking personal vendettas including a developing love affair with Queen Susan (what's that all about?). This move did a great job of making Caspian look like a pompous ass.At one point in the movie, Peter decides to attack Miraz's castle against the council of Caspian and others. The plan takes a turn for the worse when Caspian discovers that Miraz killed his father and attempts to assassinate Miraz in his bed chambers. That goes badly, alarms are set off, Narnians retreat leaving several behind. Fingers are pointed at Peter for wanting some glorious victory and back at Caspian for not sticking to the plan. Meanwhile I'm sitting in my seat wondering if I'd missed a chapter or two when I last read the book.The last atrocity I'll discuss is the meaning behind seeing Aslan. Faith and Christianity are profound points in C.S. Lewis's novels, and I'll just say that this movie missed the mark yet again.It would be ridiculous to believe a movie could follow a book to the letter. However, what this movie did to the characters is cinematic murder.
__label__5 This movie was pretty interesting to watch, but it had a lot of faults. Yet again, I feel like this movie had so much more potential- just like the first one. It often feels like I am watching a child's version of Lord of the Rings. Yes, I know it is directed towards children, but kids don't need cheesy comments or cheesy acting to enjoy a movie. Also, I don't understand the dramatic female vocals towards the end of both movies. I don't feel like it goes at all with the movie. This movie seemed to have something missing. All there was to it was the kids came back to Narnia, found out what was going on, fought a lot, and then left. The whole "romance" between Susan and Caspian was absolutely pointless. First of all, I think they spoke to each other about two or three times, and kept it brief. Then she left? They made it seem like all it was was two teenagers full of hormones...and it was like the creators of the movie decided to throw that in there last minute to attract a broader audience. I think the lack of blood during battle is pointless. There's no need to hide the fact that people have blood running through their veins. A child learns that the first time he/she scrapes their knee. As long as it isn't excessive in a "Kill Bill" way, I think it's appropriate. On another note, why was Edmund put into the background so often? He hardly spoke 5 lines!
__label__5 The BadI'm sure my surroundings had a lot to do with my enjoyment of the film, or lack thereof, but even without that it wasn't up to the high standard that I regard the first three Pirates of the Caribbean films. The plot was flaky and apart from Jack, the characters weren't that great.After seeing Ian McShane in Deadwood I was convinced he'd make a fantastic Blackbeard, but I think his Lovejoy character was more evil than he was in On Stranger Tides. At the height of his devilishness (is that even a word?) he triggered his ship's flamethrower to kill a mutineer and gave us doubts over his true feelings to a daughter he'd only just found out about. He wasn't a patch on the Barbosa/Davey Jones/Lord Beckett trifecta of evil from the first three films. As someone once said, Luke Skywalker was only as good as Darth Vader was evil.Speaking of the daughter, Penelope Cruz as Angelica was a character I felt very apathetic towards. The whole raison d'etre of her quest to find the Fountain of Youth was because it had been foretold that a one legged man would kill her father and she wanted to save him so she could have that father she never heard. I'm sorry but pass me the bucket - that sentimental dross deserves to be on Jeremy Kyle (Oprah Winfrey for anyone reading from the US) not as the main plot for the latest of one of the biggest film franchises of all time.The dilemma at the end of the film sees both Blackbeard and Angelica about to die and only one can be saved by the Fountain of Youth. At that point I didn't care if either died and why should I? Blackbeard is an evil man, or so they tell us, and Angelica has used Jack to get to the Fountain of Youth. If I were Jack I'd have left them both to die and the film would have been better off if he had. At least then we'd have some of the darker side of Jack which never showed appeared in this film. Instead our scoundrel played a goody two shoes who seemed to be motivated by his concern for Angelica's safety. Please, this is Jack Sparrow we are talking about, like he really gives a damn about anyone apart from himself, a characteristic which made him so appealing in the previous films. Yes, he does have a softer side that we've seen before, but to not this whipped extent.Don't even get me started on the Mermaids. They were great to start with, but as soon as it was just Syrena and her boring relationship with Philip the clergyman, all was lost as they gave us the dullest moments in Pirates of the Caribbean history, to date.My last major moan is about the part where Jack left Angelica on the island. Remember, Angelica's whole motivation was to save her father, and Jack had just condemned him to death. So why in God's name, when his back was turned, did she try to attack him with a piece of wood and not shoot him in the back with the pistol he had just given her? Yes she had some feelings for Jack, but surely not enough for her to get over the fact that Jack had basically just killed her father and destroyed what she had spent the whole film trying to achieve? Don't give me the old 'he saved her life' spiel – Jack let Blackbeard , her father, die - end of story.The GoodWhilst nowhere near as funny as in the previous films Jack was still a great character, in spite of his wimpy attitude change. The scenes where he escaped from the King and the clutches of the Spanish were a reminder of how great Pirates of the Caribbean can be at its best. It was great to see Gibbs back alongside Jack as their chemistry is great and a nice link back my beloved first three films.As always, the film looked and sounded great, though the 3D wasn't essential and I found myself taking the glasses off from time to time and it made little difference. In fact I'd go as far as to say that while you lose depth in 2D, you gain richness in colour.I'm struggling to think of much else to compliment the film for and at the moment I'm stuck in my post viewing disappointment funk. I really need to watch it again but after my horrific cinema experience I'll wait until it comes out on Blu-ray.
__label__5 So after a 4 year hiatus Disney decides to bring back Captain Jack Sparrow. A huge fan of the first one and moderately enjoyed the second one and confused by the third one I was ready to see a fresh crew for the this new installment. The films opening scene was fantastic. It was fun and creative and really captured the essence of the Jack Sparrow that we love. It kept going for a bit. The first 20 minutes of the movie were the most exciting and fun parts of the movie except for one scene which I feel may be second best scene in all the Pirates films. The infamous addition of mermaids was the best part in the entire film. It was very reminiscent of the powerful underwater march of the dead from the first film. Lets move onto the acting. Most of it was decently solid but Ian McShane as the villain, Black Beard stole the show. He actually seemed like the only one who cared to make the film interesting. Another newcomer to the series was Penelope Cruz. She was nothing fantastic but completely necessary to bring in a much needed sex appeal to the film. Geoffrey Rush returned as Barbosa, I felt he was very confused as to if he was a bad guy or good guy which caused his acting to seem very indifferent. There were a few scenes that you knew he was having fun but otherwise he was just a drag. And of course Johnny Depp reprized his role as the witty fun loving Captain Jack Sparrow. Again he had his moments just like Barbosa that were fun and creative but he even came up a little lackluster in certain scenes. The story was super simple, which I guess is understandable considering the convoluted mess of 2 and 3.There was an unnecessary sub plot that never got resolved, which I wish they spent a little more time on and made it a little darker. I am not going to spoil anything though, but you will see what I am talking about when you see the film. As you wait for the scene after the credits you want it to be the conclusion to this sub plot but nope. The climax could have been a bit more climatic and more exciting, but I guess they did what they could. Most of the action happens in the dark so I would not recommend the 3D transfer of it. I saw it in 2D and I thought the 3D wouldn't be worth it.Marshall did a mediocre job directing. It was nothing special and definitely not Gore Verbinski. The way the film turned out, it looked like the director was even bored while shooting. Positively though it is a summer blockbuster where your brain needs to be left at home and will be enjoyed by lovers of the series. It may not stay with you but for an hour and half of the movie out of the 2+ running time you will be enjoying yourself which I guess is not too bad.On initial reaction to the film I gave it a 7/10 because at the time it was enjoyable. Then I thought about it and the reason I almost fell asleep twice was not because it was late, it was because the story was boring and nothing was really happening in this lengthy piece of work. Therefore on second reaction it gets a 5/10. If they continue the series, which I am sure they will seeing as how this film will make bank over the weekend, they need to trim out the unnecessary sub plots that do nothing for the story except let it drag on and if anything bring back the gorgeous and creepy mermaids. Also have a little faith in the audience, you can make the plot a little bit more thought provoking instead of laying all the pieces in front of us and then watching you put them together after we already know how to do the puzzle in our head. Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides 5/10 via The Reel KingFollow The Reel King on Tumblr for more reviews
__label__5 Interesting enough as time travel with aliens movie but not really enough good ideas and does not contain much novel material. What a film that is supposed to be about CGI spectacle and strange aliens has to be fancy ar**ed about sixties cultural references - lord only knows. The plot revolves around 'The Terminator', eg Will Smith has to go back in time to prevent the Tommy Lee Jones characte being killed by his arch nemesis Boris, who has escaped top security jail on the Moon! The Boris character is not played by Tim Curry but nevertheless is way over the top but not truly original or menacing enough. Most of it is a conventional 'Let's save the Earth from a Napoleon-complex mega baddie.' And it is terribly thin on spectacle as it arcs its way to the final showdown at Cape Canaveral. Good jokes for adults and an excellent lookalike and soundalike performance by Josh Brolin as the young Tommy Lee Jones, but film wastes 3D - and the price at the Odeon Putney was a total rip off - £10!!!!!! Not good enough by half.
__label__5 The MIB duo of Agent Jay (Will Smith) and Agent Kay (Tommy Lee Jones) are back in action. When the world is threatened by an evil alien, Agent Jay travels back in time to 1969, where he teams up with the younger Agent Kay to stop an evil villain named Boris (Jemaine Clement) from destroying the world in the future. Emma Thompson will play take-charge MIB operative Agent Oh, who is monitoring a prison breakout.The first of the Men In Black franchise was a great movie. It was highly successful and from that spawned a Men In Black dance, a no. 1 hit single from the soundtrack, loads of toys and a cartoon series. The second film was awful; truly awful; beyond terrible and instantly forgettable. This latest instalment is somewhere between the 1st and the 2nd film. To be honest, it wasn't great at all! Let me get straight into it this.Performances, apart from one, measure up from terrible to very good. Smith reprises his role as Agent J and is as funny and charismatic as he's always been. Tommy Lee Jones has a small part to play in this, but he's an actor who can say one line throughout an entire film and still show more presence than most of the cast members. Emma Thompson throws in her 10 pence worth and does OK, but it's Josh Brolin who is very good playing the younger version of Agent K. Most people will agree that Brolin is a highly rated actor who has played a myriad of characters in his career. An almost uncanny performance from Brolin as well as the talented Michael Stuhlbarg (A Serious Man) who plays alien Griffin are the standouts in this film. Everyone else does what they're supposed to do and they are where they're meant to be I suppose.Set pieces are boring and nothing special. The actual story itself isn't that bad, but the whole thing feels rushed. The main villain Boris The Animal played by Jermaine Clement from Flight of the Concords fame, belongs in the category of one of the worst villains ever to grace the screen. Just rubbish – nothing special about that him at all. I think only Lara Flynn Boyle in the second movie faired better, with Vincent D'Onofrio being the best of a bad bunch. Actually D'Onofrio was awesome in the first film.I think I fell asleep for about five minutes or five seconds. I don't know, Men In Black 3 is just average. It didn't grab me like the first film did and I was really hoping that this would. There's nothing else to say, but just don't make a 4th film Mr Sonnefield. A real let down and real waste of money, time and energy spent to get to the cinema on time to watch this.
__label__5 Let's just get this out of the way: Josh Brolin's portrayal of a young Tommy Lee Jones is freakishly good. It's one of the most amusing performances of 2012 so far. It's disappointing then that the film around him – which appears to have felt the effects of its well known production issues – is hit and miss at best, cringe-worthy at worst. The CGI is often horrible, Jemaine Clement's villain is underwhelming and Hollywood stalwarts Jones and Emma Thomson are criminally underused. However, there's still enough here to recommend for Dad's and sons looking for some female-free time. Will Smith is clearly relishing the opportunity to play Agent J for the third time and he slots back into ultra-cool, jive-talking mode like a second skin. A handful of the gags work too, most of them stemming from the fish-out-of-water premise having Agent J return to the sixties. Oh, and did I mention that Brolin is amazing? He's almost worth the price of admission alone. Almost.
__label__5 What a difference an Extended Edition makes. For the first part we got some jolly embellishment. For The Desolation of Smaug we got bags more depth and character. For The Battle of the Five Armies, it may - I hope - be transformative. Because right now this feels like An Unfinished Journey.It's as if, after all the complaints about splitting a pamphlet of a novel into three parts, Peter Jackson is playing a joke on us: This is what you get when you ask for Middle-earth-lite. Characters we've come to love or loathe arc into nothing; others (e.g. Beorn and Radagast) are given literally seconds of screen time; and for the first time in this prequel trilogy, a whole chapter (The Return Journey) is pretty much elided entirely.I'd like to be clear on my admiration for what Peter Jackson has done with The Hobbit so far. For all The Lord of the Rings' mythic grandeur and complex world-building, there's a warm geniality and brisk impetus to these lovingly crafted films. And those qualities are married to a thematic depth missing from its bedtime story source. Home and borders are themes that have run through this trilogy, from Bilbo's (Martin Freeman) heartfelt declaration of solidarity at the end of An Unexpected Journey, to Kili's (Aidan Turner) fevered speech to Tauriel (Evangeline Lilly) as she heals his wounds in Desolation, when they realise reconciliation is possible. Heck, I even like the addition of Tauriel - though her unsatisfying conclusion is perhaps typical of a final chapter that too often fails to tie up its loose ends.The movie kicks off from precisely where the second ended, with the dread dragon Smaug (Benedict Cumberbatch) descending upon Laketown. The citizens flee but nothing can stop the cataclysm - until a certain someone finds an ingenious way to pierce the beast. Then there's nemesis #2: Sauron (also Cumberbatch). We get to see some familiar faces face-off with this faceless monstrosity.The story then enters its most intriguing phase: a kind of psychodrama involving Thorin (Richard Armitage) and his sickening relationship with gold and power. It's the one time we really glimpse that signature Jackson oddness, in a wonderful hallucinatory sequence where Thorin imagines he's sinking in a lake of gold.The narrative follows the book fairly closely. This was, after all, the stage of the story where Professor Tolkien finally foregrounded politics and ethics and the machinations of characters ahead of adventure. The film is at its most successful in the quieter moments, as Thranduil (a subtle Lee Pace) ponders the duty of the elves; as Bard (a brooding Luke Evans) comes to the gate of the mountain to plead for peace; and as Thorin struggles with his "dragon-sickness" (i.e. greed), while Bilbo wrestles with the dilemma of what to do with a certain stolen gemstone.Thorin was presented at first as this trilogy's Aragorn. But over time we've learned of the dangerous pride that ruined his grandfather. Thorin's hubris and arrogance is in stark contrast to Bilbo's very relatable and achievable traits of decency and humility. The gulf between them is intriguing and wisely plundered for drama. Armitage and Bilbo provide the best performances of the film - mostly internal; mostly in the eyes - and their farewell is one of the more moving moments in a trilogy that has largely prioritised humour over pathos.The battle itself is undoubtedly impressive - great roaring hordes punctuated with spectacular giants - but in a sense it compounds the problem of the relatively truncated runtime. What was already the shortest Middle-earth film is rendered artificially even shorter by the fact that there's 45 minutes of virtually wordless fighting. By now we should all be braced for Super Legolas and his physics-defying fighting style. That reaches new heights here; as he sprints up a crumbling bridge like he's on the wrong escalator, it's like some sort of visual satire on the weightlessness of CGI.With its last bastion and swarming armies, the titular battle resembles The Return of the King's Pelennor finale - yet that movie took breath between its showdowns. Galadriel vs. Sauron; Legolas vs. Bolg; Thorin vs. Azog... it's like we're watching someone finish off a video game but we're powerless to stop them skipping the tension- or character-building cutscenes. Moreover, the dubious editing decisions create some strange and jolting juxtapositions and tonal lurches, and negate the sense of time passing or of great distances being crossed.The result is a film that really earns its status of "theatrical cut", insofar as it resembles many a boisterous blockbuster. This is fairly damning criticism for a Middle-earth movie, usually so luxurious and layered in its sense of a unique world. There's plenty of meat here - but where are the bones that hold it all together? 11 months away, perhaps.
__label__5 Well, I have to say that I'm glad that's over. The final movie was well worth the price of admission, which in my case was a free ticket to a preview screening.I found this movie to be a stretch and as the final movie in a trilogy that was getting less interesting the further you went into the series, I left feeling extremely disappointed, and glad I didn't pay for the premium experience (3D, Imax, etc).There was a little too much CG this time around, and it wasn't even all that great. Case in point two close scenes with a rider approaching and leaving were clearly CG...they couldn't even afford to use a real horse and rider? Come on...The battle scenes went on way too long and in parts were even more ridiculous than the "riding the broken wooden bridges all the way down to the bottom of the cavern..." scene in the earlier edition of this series, and since the battle scenes were pretty much all that carried this movie, well...Yes, this movie does have to be seen and it should be viewed on a big screen. However, in the opinion of this reviewer, waiting until it appears in a second run theatre will provide better value for money.It's a movie that wraps up a series, but when compared to Peter Jackson's original LOTR work it pales and is as pale as an orc who has been working in the basement of Orthanc. At night. With the lights out.
__label__5 In Jackson's defense: the project was ambitious to begin with. Turn 310 pages of children's literature into an epic Hollywood trilogy. Many debates go on about which movie was the best: the fairy tale, the one in-between, or the die hard-alike final. The sad truth is, that to a pure fan, they are, one by one, in their own unique ways, an abomination. What can one expect, from a battle that starts in the third-to-last chapter in the book, but that goes on for 144 minutes in the film adaption? Granted, some of the battle scenes were innovative. In fact, the beginning, the cooperation between the elves and dwarfs, who had been ridiculing each other like Tom and Jerry at first, was most entertaining. For a few minutes, at most. But not for two hours. Of course, the writers realized this. Therefore, these bombastic large- scale battles were altered with individual scenes. And this is where all touch with Tolkien faded. Not only were the action scenes needlessly absurd, (I think of Legolas jumping from one falling stone to another, of Azog opening his eyes in an o-so-melodramatic fashion we've seen way too many times, and of Brad's ridiculous carriage scene) but the individual stories weren't nearly as grasping as they should have been. And this can be forgiven for Thranduil and his son, in an unsuccessful ending scene, that was empty of any convincing emotions, in an attempt to make a bridge to the Lord of The Rings series. This can even be forgiven for Thorin, the classic anti-hero who goes mad after barely a few days of being around his treasure, but realizes his true destiny just in time, only to die an honorable death, in order to obtain forgiveness for his 20-minute-earlier sins. But this can't be forgiven for the Hobbit. Bilbo Baggins is a supernumerary in his own movie. And that is inexcusable.All fans of Tolkien will probably watch this. The feeling I'm left with, is gratefulness for the untouchable Lord of the Rings series. They can never be taken away. "The Hobbit" falls short right there where the Lord of the Rings is most powerful: loyalty to Tolkien. The trilogy did not fail because it grasped for Hollywood-greatness, it failed because Tolkien would watch it and say "What a fine movie! Where'd you get the idea?"
__label__5 When I went to the theater, I was filled with hope, excitement and joy. I'm the biggest Hobbit fan I know(I adore the movies, the book, and collect all the trinkets and art books I can.), and since the Desolation of Smaug had been a quite good movie, and I had heard Peter Jackson claim this film was going to be even more serious and thriller-y, I naturally assumed it was going to be a dark, thrilling movie that had me on the edge of my seat.This was not the case.The movie started with an extremely anticlimactic scene that killed suspension of disbelief, and continued on the same track. Smaug, while a masterpiece of animation, was disappointing, as was most of the movie. The film continued, and I was more and more confused- this is not the movie I had expected. It lacked a good plot, was confusing even to me(who has read the book and the production books five times over), and COULD NOT DECIDE WHAT IT WANTED TO BE.One second, it was comedy, and while some scenes were amusing enough, some were just cringe-worthy(Peter Jackson's horrendous comic timing making itself known), but these scenes completely ruined the atmosphere of the film, making it dull and bland instead of tense and exciting. The only saving grace this piece of badly directed trash had were the scenes with the King of the Dwarfs, Thorin, succumbing to madness, and his relationship dynamic with Bilbo(who had very little screen time for a film about him) These scenes were brilliant, mostly because of the heartfelt and excellent acting of Richard Armitage and Martin Freeman.Sadly, even though one feels these scenes should be in center, the movie chooses to focus on dull battle sequences. The scenes that are truly good are hastily skipped over, and we move to classic bad PJ comedy and awful battle scenes. While in Lord of The Rings there were some goofy battle scenes, this movie almost seems like it's trying to make a parody of itself. I did not find many problems with Legolas's gravity defying skills in Desolation of Smaug, but here, it makes you wonder if Middle Earth is actually the moon in regards to the gravity-free atmosphere.Other than the terrible battle scenes, we have the focus on a romance plot so bad it almost makes me blush of second-hand embarrassment. It's like the movie is trying to emulate elements from Titanic, but fails miserably. The romance was so forced it might as well be a spoof, and was a complete waste of a female character. I am in favor of female characters being added to the story. In fact, I love it. But here? It is so blatantly clear Tauriel was only added to be Kili's love interest, and it hurts my heart to see female character's butchered in this way.(And that's not even mentioning the atrocity that was making Galadriel, who is the strongest person in middle-earth, laying on the floor sobbing and waiting for her strong male wizard companions to help her.) The death scenes of some of the characters were underwhelming, except for one, which was emotional enough to make me give this movie my almost-approval, but it is just as many of us feared: This movie gives no screen time or attention to dwarfs who are not Thorin Oakenshield and Kili(we don't even see them fight in this movie. They just stand in the background.)So, to sum it up, if you expect a thrilling experience, you're out of luck. The movie was generally poorly paced, poorly directed, with really awful CGI, conflicts that were created, solved and sometimes forgotten in the blink of an eye, and an excess of Legolas.(WHO IS LITERALLY JUST THERE TO LOOK PRETTY AND DO STUNTS.). It is a worth watch if you're a fan, but only for a couple of scenes that the director seemed to have deemed unimportant despite them being the only reason this movie was even worth the name. Tasteless jokes, awful fight scenes, terrible cheesy romance that puts the notebook to shame, and more questions than answers in the end. Peter Jackson truly did not deliver, even though it's clear he tried. He simply tried too much.
__label__5 So... That was The Hobbit: The Battle of the Five Armies. The final film in Peter Jackson's six-film Middle-Earth saga.This may just be Jackson's most ambitious film yet. It has to work as a standalone film, it has to be the final part of a trilogy, and it has to be the bridge between The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings films. Ambitious?Let me state for the record that I'm an enormous fan of the Lord of the Rings films. I consider them to be the best trilogy of all time. However, I didn't really have that same vibe with the Hobbit films. I admit, when I heard they would begin making more Middle-Earth films, I was excited. The thought of returning to Middle-Earth was exhilarating.Then, in December 2012, the first Hobbit film has its release. I was disappointed. It may have been because I didn't know what to expect, but it certainly wasn't what I had hoped it would be. There was too much goofy humor, and it was close to putting me to sleep at times.Come December 2013, The Desolation of Smaug is released. Looking back, I think that this film was intended to split audiences. This film deviated so much from its source material that, at times, I forgot what I was watching. Suddenly, there was a Dwarf-Elf love story, suddenly Thorin's company of Dwarfs split up, suddenly they're fighting Smaug, and then the film ends.Now, here we are in 2014, with the conclusion to the Hobbit films, The Battle of the Five Armies. This film literally starts off where Desolation left off, with Smaug destroying Lake- Town. A breathtaking sequence. Beautiful visuals remind us that Thorin's actions will bring some devastating consequences. However, the sequence loses me a bit by cutting away to the Master of Lake-Town and Alfrid, who I guess were meant to be comic relief, but I ended up wishing they'd die. Not because I didn't like their characters, but because I thought they were so annoying and distracting from the overall experience.After a very Lord of the Rings-esque recovery scene, we meet Bilbo and Thorin's half company of Dwarfs at Erebor, and you can tell Thorin has changed. He's become sick with the aptly named Dragon Sickness, and Bilbo can tell that something isn't quite right about him. Little do they know that Azog (Who is, like, the evilest thing ever.) is marching towards Erebor, as well as the Elvenking 'Mr. Fabulous' Thranduil, is also moving towards Erebor, resulting in a literal clash of the titans.What we end up with is an enormous battle, so large in fact, that it shares title with the film. And now is also when Peter Jackson displays his qualities and faults as a film director. He manages to makes his battles very intimate, despite the chaos that you see on the screen. However, he has shown a particular love for goofy stuff, and after three films, he finally almost got it. There still is goofiness for people who crave that, but for the rest of us it comes off as dumb excuses for cheap laughs.But damn, this film has a lot of CGI. And some of it doesn't even look finished! Some sequences looked like video game cutscenes at best, and at points I had to take off my 3D glasses because I had no idea what was happening. Note to self: Never see a 3D film again.However, all things must come to an end, and in this film, there are so many cases that are left unsolved, almost to the point where it baffled me. We're introduced to Thorin's cousin, Daín Ironfoot, who I'm pretty sure is a CGI version of Billy Connolly. Suddenly, he's gone, and we're left wondering where he went, and we never see what happens to them again. Same thing happens to Beorn, Tauriel, Bard, and *sigh* Alfrid, just to mention a few.That's this film's main problem; It opened too many doors without shutting them. Does that analogy make sense? There's almost no resolution to any of the characters except for Bilbo, masterfully portrayed by Martin Freeman, by the way. For a film series called The Hobbit, he doesn't appear nearly enough. I'm looking at you, Tauriel! Get out of the frame!In conclusion, this is a worthy final installment in The Hobbit Trilogy, and a film I consider to be the best of the three.Pros: Great acting, well-directed battle sequences, Howard Shore (Need I say more?), good visuals.Cons: Lack of resolutions, obnoxious characters, too much CGI, some cheesy moments.All in all a fine holiday film. If you enjoyed the previous Hobbits, you'll like this one.
__label__5 The Lord of the Rings trilogy is my favourite movie of all time. But my passion for middle earth doesn't stop there, I am obsessed with this world and in love with the vastness and complexity of its characters and stories. So, did I like the movie? Yes, a lot. Was the movie actually good? That would be more debatable. Before I go into the thick of this review, I just want to remind that I really like the movie, but if it seems that I am highlighting only the negative points it is because they are so frustrating.Everything that is wrong with this and the other two Hobbit movies are basic filmaking decisions that are wrongly taken. This is to say that Peter Jackson's brilliance remains, he gave proof in all of these movies that he knows how to direct his films. There is nobody in the world that knows how to stage a battle like him. He takes us through amazing visual choices and complex staging flawlessly. The fluency of everything is magnificent, thanks to an amazing pace. Despite me thinking about the wrongs of it, I could not help but be flattered by the sheer epicness of this. I was genuinely on the edge of my seat, I felt amazing tension at times, I really loved the experience and was attached to the very end to the characters. Every one of them. The duels were fantastic, it was all riveting. But there were simply decisions that were made early on that took away from it.Why are these movies shot digitally! Other than looking very bad it does not make sense. The whole 48fps, 3D, digital shooting was a mistake to being with. These films shot have been shot on film, just like the Lord of the Rings, it would have given them a thousand points more. The whole CGI is just too much. There isn't any of the practicality from the first movies and it shows so bad. Digital masses of everything that have no weight and look way too bad for a 500million$ production. I am convinced that by shooting on film and loosing half of the CGi in favour of practicality would make these three movies ten times better. To this point by removing half of the CGI we could also remove all the extravagant madness that comes from it. There are scenes or monsters in this film that would have never even passed first draft back in the Lord of the Rings, because they are so weird and out of the moment (talking for example about that Legolas moment in this one, those of you who have seen the movie understand me). Other than this you do not waste time on characters we don-t give the F***K about! I am really OK with making three movies out of the Hobbit, you know if it's the last time we visit Middle Earth we might as well throw in everything that Tolkien wrote that could fit in. But lets not waste time on Alfrid or the Governor! You know three two/hour movies could have really made it! Anyways, I don't want to indulge in my frustration too much because it would be a waste of time. Go see the movie if you-re a fan like me, you won-t be disappointed more than you were with the other movies. They are really good, but they could have so easily been f****g great!
__label__5 With the success of the first X-Men movie in 2000, Bryan Singer pretty much paved the way for all the comic book movies we see today. That included a certain super hero movie made by Sami Rami in 2002 where a nerdy guy (Tobey Maguire) gets bitten by a radioactive spider and inherits superhuman powers. If Singer had paved the way, then Rami provided the icing on the cake: a faithful, smart, well-acted super hero flick that had as much heart and sincerity packed in as it had all those set pieces. It also lead to a superior sequel and the much maligned, though underrated, third episode.Which brings us to what we have here: while not a beat for beat remake, you get the same story more or less with a different love interest and villain. Peter Parker (Andrew Garfield) sneaks into a research facility and gets bitten by a radioactive/genetically enhanced spider. He gets super powers and becomes Spider-Man. Meanwhile, a doctor (Rhys Ifans) working at the same facility, is being forced to close down his research into tissue regeneration. In desperation, he injects himself with an untested self-generating lizard vaccine and becomes a half man/half lizard thing. Spider-Man is then forced into action to stop him from spreading this contagion throughout the city of New York. Gwen Stacy (Emma Stone) is the damsel in distress/love interest and plays a role in trying to stop the crazed beast.First things first: this is not a bad film. It's well acted by all the principals, has good effects, a scary and menacing villain, some nice action sequences and web swinging effects that are generally slightly more realistic than the Rami version. Parker is more evidently scientific and intelligent here. Also the police's notion that Spider-Man is a menace to the public is more clearly defined, especially in the scene where he disarms an officer. The new idea is that Parker can hear the movements of spiders and it's a good addition. So where does it all go wrong? The short answer: it's just that it's so pointless. We had already seen the story before. There was absolutely no reason to tell it again. This movie could easily have been Spider-Man 4 with Andrew Garfield filling in the Spidey spandex instead of Tobey Maguire. But Marvel – in their infinite wisdom – just chose to tell the same story a second time. Going by that rationale, presumably Andrew Garfield will be cast aside like a disused sock when they inevitably choose to 'reboot' the franchise again in ten years or so. It is a scarily unimaginative tactic and it is one they will continue to do until there is a massive financial failure.This movie follows the same set up as the 2002 version: Parker being picked on, getting advice from his sage-like uncle (Martin Sheen), being bitten, getting his powers/climbing walls, and turning his back on a situation which unfortunately has tragic consequences for a family member. It's all a case of been there, done that. If you want to compare it to the Rami original, then the short answer is; as good as Andrew Garfield is, Tobey Maguire was better. Maguire filled the suit better; on occasion, Garfield is prone to looking thin and scrawny during several scenes. Even the suit looked better in the Rami movies. And those earlier movies had a heart and sincerity – especially in the relationship between Peter and his aunt and uncle that you don't see here. Again we ask: why does this movie exist?And there are holes: there's a massive lizard running around, wreaking havoc; yet the police are more preoccupied with pointing their guns at Spider-Man – despite the fact that he saved a child in a (surprise, surprise) rehashed scene set on a bridge taken from Rami's first movie. In another part, the citizens of the city (once again - in a bit taken from Rami's movie) unite to help Spider-Man cross the city using tower cranes – despite the fact that there are buildings all around him. Heck, even the villain is initially a do-gooder like Norman Osborn and Dr. Octavius – again from the Rami movies.It also seems to pull inspiration from another super hero movie: Christopher Nolan's Batman Begins (2005) in that it's slightly darker, tells such a large origin story that just like Batman Begins, Spider-Man doesn't actually show up on screen for the first hour. So if you take two parts Batman Begins and add a touch of Rami's Spider-Man, the result is what you have here. Additionally, the introduction of the web shooters, while being faithful to the original comics and emphasizing Parker's intellect, is a bit of a mixed blessing. The notion of the web being an organic material rather than being fired from mechanical devices actually made more sense.It's not that reboots are a bad idea, they're not. In certain situations they can work well, provided for example, enough time has elapsed. But there is no point in retelling the same story if the initial release is still relatively recent. In addition, it helps if the story wasn't covered well the first time, or it was a bad movie to begin with. Going by this criteria, Marvel's latest cash cow is unnecessary on all three accounts.In closing, if you haven't already seen the Rami movie from 2002, go watch it instead. If you have seen it, then this probably won't live up to it and you will be left feeling a little underwhelmed. It's fair to say that for anyone over the age of eighteen, this movie will seem rather half-hearted and senseless; for those under eighteen, this movie will probably be the greatest super hero flick ever. Yes, it's a movie that will divide opinions, primarily on the sole reason for its existence. Not a bad, or a badly made flick, by any means just a pointless one.
__label__5 "To be hunted all the days of his life, until his corpse unburied, is carrion for foxes and crows."A few tips for getting the most enjoyment possible out of Robin Hood:1. Forget that it's an adaptation of Robin Hood, entirely. Just pretend like it's a middling medieval drama/adventure movie starring Russell Crowe and Cate Blanchett (who's spectacularly underused), with some very vague connections to the Robin Hood legend. Everything is changed about, added too, and embellished beyond recognition. There's nothing wrong with trying to put a fresh spin on an old tale (if it works), but you'll be greatly disappointed if you expect any more than loose connections to the well-known versions of the adventures of Robin Hood and his Merry Men. 2. Don't expect Gladiator in England. Robin Hood desperately tries to be epic, sweeping, grandiose, and politically involving, but it doesn't come near the heights of the mega-popular, critically beloved Gladiator. It's not a bad movie, and you could enjoy it (if you keep your expectations at a reasonable level), but it's okay at best and deeply flawed at worst. Crowe doesn't put half the heart, passion, or effort into Robin Longstride that he did into Maximus. The characters are one-note and static, and the plot is overly-ambitious and needlessly complex. There is less than zero chemistry between Crowe and Blanchett. Robin's back-story was a contrived mess that added nothing to the movie except empty minutes to the running time. The main flaw with Robin Hood is that it's so preoccupied with being serious and deep, that it forgets to be fun. There's nothing wrong with trying to take a story like this in a more realistic direction, but there needs to be a rousing adventure at its heart. That's what's missing from this film. Robin Hood is a shadow of Gladiator. It's a shadow of Kingdom of Heaven, to be honest. But there are moments when the battles are raging and you forget that this is supposed to be Robin Hood, when it's an okay movie. My review seems horribly negative and that's not my intention - my expectations for this were just really high. It felt like Ridley Scott really didn't try all that hard, and the cast and crew followed his example. 
__label__5 Robin Hood is a very professionally made film. Great actors, great production design, great images. It is nice to watch because you feel you are in the capable hands of Ridley Scott. But do not expect to be amazed by the story or the acting. Apart from dame Marion, the characters are two dimensional and predictable. The film pretends to be historically correct, but is of course a well dressed fantasy. There are a few battle scenes, filmed in the Gladiator way. They are exciting, but not very convincing. In fact, they are completely ridiculous when you think you are watching a historically correct film. The worst for me were the boats in the final battle, apparently trying to induce a D-Day feeling. Overall, the story is off balance. Some scenes have a very slow pace, while other scenes, often key elements that explain how Robin Hood came into existence, are reduced to a few shots and proclamations. The end of the film tells it all: it reminds us that we were supposed to see the story of how the legend of Robin Hood started. The makers just forgot to tell it.
__label__5 Ridley Scott aimed to bring Robin Hood down to earth and in that straightforward respect he was successful. The problem is that he arguably brought Robin Hood CRASHING down to earth, jammed like a square peg in a round hole into a generic semi-epic of medieval warfare and political intrigue. Change the names of Robin, Little John, Marian, and the village of Nottingham and I'd pretty much have no idea that this screenplay was ever written with the intention of being a Robin Hood movie — even the villain, a French spy and marauder named Godfrey, is a brand new creation, with the Sheriff reduced to a piddling, zero-impact supporting character. It ends up feeling like a little bit of Robin Hood mythos accidentally leaked onto a print of Braveheart or Gladiator so they said to hell with it and decided to release it in theaters, albeit with the bloodshed dialed back to PG-13 levels.That's not to imply that the movie is boring or devoid of action; there's plenty of battles, hundreds dead, and even a spot of comic relief in Little John and Friar Tuck. But when I think of Robin Hood the giant neon sign in my mind flashes the word ADVENTURE, and I would in no way, shape, or form ever describe Scott's Robin Hood as an adventure movie. A medieval war movie perhaps, but not an adventure movie. There's a little bit of travel, sure, but Robin spends at least half if not more of the runtime just chilling in Nottingham, flirting with Marian and tilling the soil. And, sorry to be unimaginative, but I wanna see Robin Hood getting chased, sneaking under the enemy's nose in disguise, picking up new companions on his journey, swashbuckling, and in general feeling like a rogue, none of which this Robin Hood does. It's a bizarrely dry interpretation of one of popular fiction's most infamous scoundrels.Part of the problem is the badly miscast leads. There's fun to be had in Kevin Durand's Little John, Max von Sydow's Sir Walter Loxley, Sherlock Holmes and Kick-Ass's Mark Strong further cementing his villainous typecasting as Godfrey, and even a bit of scenery-chewing in Oscar Isaac's King John, but however many Academy Awards they may have between them I don't think that Russell Crowe and Cate Blanchett were right for Robin and Marian. Fine actors, especially Blanchett, but they have virtually no personalities in this movie and no romantic chemistry whatsoever. Dryness emanates from them; I was worried they would near a spark and catch flame.It's also kind of bizarre how the film purports to be the beginning of the legend, yet Robin Hood is played by an actor nearing fifty. Don't get me wrong; I'm not one of those morons who needs all my film leads to be whippersnappers — I'm the world's biggest enthusiast of 58-year-old Liam Neeson's newfound career as a pulpy action star — but both Crowe and Blanchett just look too damn old for these parts. I would have rather seen someone like, I don't know, Stardust's Charlie Cox as Robin Hood. Not as good an actor, no, but better for this role. I never thought I'd say this, but even Orlando Bloom would have been better.As for what the film gets right, if you've seen Gladiator and Kingdom of Heaven (which, by the way, in its director's cut form ties with Alien as the best film Scott's ever done) you know that Ridley Scott has a real talent for making these medieval epics look and feel just right. The sets, the costumes, the castles, the villages, the weaponry, the layer of Middle Ages dirt and grime on everything, it all looks great, especially bolstered by beautiful cinematography. I won't go so far as to say it makes you want to be there, but it's authentic and drawn with painterly skill, simply a nice movie to look at whatever near-fatal weaknesses may be found in the storytelling.Still, I'd only recommend seeing this Robin Hood if you're really, really into medieval warfare and conflict. If not and you want some adventure then just watch Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves again. That's right, you big baby, you know you like it.
__label__5 We all remember how George Lucas created an amazing trilogy called "Star Wars," then went back later to do a prequel trilogy and tried to destroy the franchise by focusing on ridiculous visual effects and neglecting the story entirely; so too has Peter Jackson fallen.The five points I have given are purely for the visual aspect of the movie. It is amazing. But we all expected that.0/5 for story. Tolkien wrote an amazing little (LITTLE) book called the Hobbit. Jackson could have fit the important and relevant parts of "An Unexpected Journey" into about an hour. It is the same here. There is a ridiculous amount of filler, needless side-plots, and a stupid (for lack of a better word) love triangle that makes a Ryan Reynolds romantic comedy seem deep. And I mean OK, I expect filler if you're going to turn a tiny book into three three hour movies, but at least keep what happens in the book if you're going to make stuff up. A few times scenes that were actually written by Tolkien feel rushed and cut short, while filler scenes seem to drag endlessly.Smaug had the potential to be great, and started out that way, but the gross on screen overuse of his character makes you think of a brainless rat running through a maze searching for cheese rather than the majestic dragon we all grew up reading about.I could keep on listing things I did not like (like bringing Legolas into the film to draw fans, and then overusing every cool thing he ever did in LOTR until you're sitting in your seat begging him to stop {ex, he surfs on EVERTYTHING}) but I am going to stop.Go see the movie on principle, but don't go looking for the nostalgia of LOTR like I did. Because even though it should be there, any chance these films had of greatness was lost in the desperate attempt to turn what should have been one great film into a three year money making machine.
__label__5 About three minutes in to The Hobbit: the Desolation of Smaug we find ourselves back in the company of our merry dwarfs, a wizard and a hobbit as they yet again find themselves fleeing from Azog the incompetent orc, who is attempting to kill them. The scene is fast, action packed and not particularly exciting. When the scene is finally at an end we are served with some forgettable dialog where the company discusses the danger they are in, accompanied by some dramatic background music. It's a sign of things to come. This is basically how you will spend the next 150 minutes or so: long, drawn out action scene, short futile discussion with dramatic background score, new drawn out action scene. Throughout the movie I found myself desperately searching for moments of silence. Scenes that would allow the audience a break from this video game like narrative, but it was almost never to be found. Now let me shoot in that I like to enjoy brainless action in movies and video games for that matter, but that doesn't mean that it's right for this movie. The Hobbit is an adventure film and should play out like fairy tale. But this fairy tale suffers from a lack of restraint. It has too much action, and amazingly, too much score. It has never been an annoyance in the past, but really, does every piece of dialog have to be accompanied by score? The source material for this film; the passages of the book which describe the long walk through Mirkwood forest, the escape from the elves and the arrival in Lake town are some of the funniest, most memorable and imaginative from the entire book. To my disappointment, all the charming little scenes where Bilbo runs around invisible with his ring to help the dwarfs out of new trouble, are cut short and hastily rushed through. You get the feeling that the director is short on time and has to get it over quickly, but to make room for what exactly? How on earth is it that a trilogy consisting of three 160 minute films, all based on a short book, doesn't have the time to fully delve in to the most memorable passages from said book? Especially when these passages would have given the film some much needed pacing and comical relief. The answer came towards the end. The reason for why the film needed to move quickly was to make room for new elaborate and drawn out action scenes - all of them completely unnecessary for the plot. Now, I am no Tolkien purist, and I don't mind a little creative freedom if it serves a purpose. In the Desolation of Smaug, the only purpose seems to have been to satisfy anxious producers that the film would have enough orc on dwarf/elf/human action, which they obviously see as the only factor that made the three first films a success. There are no peaks and valleys. Only a succession of ever higher peaks. Every scene seems more action packed or dramatic than the next, with hardly any humor at all, leaving us completely numb to everything that happens. The criticism is one I could also direct at the first Hobbit movie, but it was nowhere near as unrestrained as this one. The Desolation of Smaug is more related to Peter Jackson's King Kong than the original trilogy, and one is left to wonder how the Fellowship of the Ring would have looked like, if it had been made with the same creative philosophy as the Desolation of Smaug. In all likelihood the most charming scenes would have been cut short to make room for an hour-long battle in Moria. Let us only hope that the next film manages to show some restraint in the build up the battle of the five armies. The only redeeming qualities in this film are the set pieces, which have been wonderfully put together in the same manner of which we have come to expect from the previous films. The polish and color filters could have been toned down a bit, but visually the film is still a masterpiece.
__label__5 I'm not a fan of the books, but I have read them.The story follows Lyra, an orphan girl caught up in a plot between the religious ruling class and Lord Asriel, a free spirited adventurer who wants to free mankind from the tyranny they currently live under.Chris Weitz should be whipped through the streets of America for the poor work put into this film. After that he should be locked in a cage with a real, hungry polar bear. The plot has been dumbed down and looks to be designed by committee. Several people have clearly read the book and picked scenes they think should be in the movie and dumped the rest in the bin. While the book was an epic this 'lite' version just seems too short. It isn't exactly like the film's too long. At just 113 minutes there was at least another 30 minutes before it'd be uncomfortably long. The quick pace should have given the story spring, but with the characters seemingly just jumping around the globe with no real good explanation it doesn't feel right.Daniel Craig as Lord Asriel is probably the best thing in the film, all twenty minutes he's on screen. Dakota Blue Richards as Lyra is an amazing find and clearly has a great future in front of her in movies. Sadly she could have done with a better starting point. Kidman as Marisa Coulter is stunningly beautiful, but as the main villain doesn't quite have the sinister punch needed.CGI was obviously the only way to create the daemons (the persons soul manifested as an animal companion) and this works well. The scenery and brilliant cinematography save this from being one of the few 1/10 movies I've rated on here.To sum up: a shockingly poor effort at what should have been the building block for a great franchise. With any luck New Line will find a new director for the next part.
__label__5 I agree with most of you that the effects were spectacular, but judging a film on this single criterion makes one a shallow viewer. You must judge the story on its completeness, the characters must be judged for their depth and believability (and yes, I found Kong to be a believable character, but found most of the others to be very shallow, indeed). The cinematography was interesting but typical of modern films, the costumes not correct for the period, same with the hairstyles. The New York exteriors were contrived, and some obviously shot on the Universal back lot.As I sit and think hard about the film I am having trouble finding anything very positive to say about it, except the special effects. The Kong character was spectacular, but the rest of the effects were no better than Jurassic Park's effects, especially given the advancements in CG technology over the last 12 years.That said, I could have overlooked any shortcoming if one major flaw did not exist.A film must be believable on certain levels, in order to get me to suspend my disbelief on other levels. There must be enough believable elements for me to see through the obviously unbelievable ones. This film failed in a major way in inevitability, and I'm not referring to the Kong character.Some examples: How did the main characters constantly elude death at every turn, when it was clearly obvious that they should have died many times over? How did seven men get Kong into the boat? How did they keep him subdued on the voyage, and indeed right up through the curtain going up in the theater? Why weren't Ann's hands ripped off (or at least her wrists broken) when Kong ripped her from her rope bindings when he first took her? That must have hurt! Why weren't Ann's feet cut to shreds as she ran through the jungle? Why didn't Ann get dirty and her dress rip to shreds during her ordeal in the jungle? Why did her hair stay nice and neat and her dress stay clean and white? How did she end up with only a minor facial scratch after being thrown around the jungle over and over? Why didn't Ann's skull get bashed in, or her brain jarred loose as Kong swung her violently during her capture and the scenes with the T-Rex.How could Carl, and other men survive a fall from such a great height when Kong knocked them off the log? Why weren't they crushed to death as the log came tumbling down on top of them? Why didn't Jack and Carl and the others get absolutely crushed to death by the dinosaurs as the beasts overtook them running through the jungle? Why didn't they get crushed to death as 10 or 12 dinosaurs all fell down all at once on top of them? Why wasn't everyone dead by this point in the film? Why wasn't Jack hit by a single bullet fired by Jimmy, even though every spider swarming over Jack's body was blown to smithereens, as untrained Jimmy fired blindly with his eyes shut? Why didn't the bats kill Jack and Ann, even as Kong was swarmed and mauled by them? Why didn't Jack get the least bit hurt when Kong flipped the taxi he was driving 20 feet into the air, doing a 360 and crushing the vehicle? Why didn't Ann freeze her @ss off when she met Kong in skimpy attire in the middle of winter in NYC? Why didn't Ann freeze when she and Kong were ice skating? Where did all the people go during the Central Park scene? Why weren't they running around screaming, trying to save their lives? Where did they all disappear to? Why would anyone in his or her right mind climb to the top of the Empire State Building, even for love (I was squeamish even in the comfort of my theater seat)? Why would any woman kiss Adrien Brody on top of the Empire State Building after having had such a great relationship with a real man, King Kong? This represents only a few of the unbelievable elements.At every turn in this film the unbelievable overwhelmed the believable. It would have been very easy to not go so far over the top, tone back just a little, so the suspension of disbelief could have been as natural in this remake as it was in the original.The sunrise and sunset scenes were quite nice. At least I found something good to say.
__label__5 This review contains spoilers and my English is kinda bad.... so lets  start: After seeing 8.5/10 my expectations were really high but after  watching this movie i was so disappointed (probably the worst marvel  film since first CA what is really ironic since CA 2 was one of the top  three... )   Story: story is meh, nothing special, just CA and his buddy (with  support of 1/2 avengers) against the world   My PERSONAL problems with this film :  1. Terrible villain again, didn't remember his name 20min after the  movie ended, did pretty much nothing but showed some amazing prophet  skills   2.So many stupid things like how did villain know iron man will come at  the very end, how did he know nobody told iron man how his parents  died, also the big fight at the airport was just too dumb, pretty much  all mighty jean nm.2 and vision in the same fight where black widow and  hawk eye should just really be hoping, praying and dodging some random  explosions... this list could really go on and on   3.SO OVERCROWDED. Why the hell did ant-man join the fight? What  is his motivation? How does random Nigerian prince have powers to fight  CA and bucky ? HOW ??? Nobody but CA, Iron man and bucky had story  behind them (pretty pathetic though),others were just useless guys  fighting. At least they didn't ruin Hulk even more :-)  4.Really ? Tony tried to kill his friend CA and bucky and then after  being defeated he is f***ing cool with it? Best buddies again?   5.In iron man 3 tony was able to call 30 auto iron mans to fight for  him, here he got challenged by a freaking falcon with his wings? Also  at the airport he was unable to defeat CA and at the very end he almost  rekt two of them ? ... Guess I'm back to stupid stuff...  On the other side, good things:  1.Spider-man - yea this kid with no story in movie at all was one of  few good funny things about this movie   2.Cool fights right ?  All in all , 4/10 (coz i love superheroes movies), 1/10 is to balance  things...
__label__5 Turning a board game into a big-budget summer blockbuster was always going to be a stretch. But Hasbro the company behind the cinematic juggernaut Transformers series thought they had locked on to a winning formula for their adaptation of their best-selling board-game Battleship...namely ditch Michael Bay for the supremely talented Peter Berg, add aliens and throw shed-loads of money at the screen. And it almost works...The plot such as it is sees Taylor Kitsch play the lovable aimless reluctant hero. Drafted into the Navy after a drunken stunt to impress a girl goes awry he soon rises up through the ranks as his natural ability overshadows his confrontational nature. Meanwhile scientists have discovered a new planet light-years away that might just contain intelligent life. Sending a message to this planet they are seemingly unaware of the potential consequences, that ET might answer and drop by. Back in Hawaii the Navy is gearing up for a massive military exercise when our new "friends" decide to pay a visit. What happens next is man v alien in a spectacular battle of technology and wits for the control of the planet...So lets start with Kitsch. The poor boy never can quite get a script close to that of his breakout TV role in Friday Night Lights. He's a likable guy, who does his best with the material and can handle the action sequences with aplomb. He is however overawed by Alexander Skarsgard, who manages, in a significantly smaller role, to show why he's better equipped for leading man duties than his John Carter starring cohort. Liam Neeson gives another in his trademark gruff father figure performances. You never get the feeling that he's exerting himself, but that's okay. Rihanna casts aside her singer-cum-actress background and manages to give as good as she gets playing with the boys. Brooklyn Decker never equates to more than eye-candy and the rest of the actors are all given screen-time but no background.As a feat of technical film-making Battleship is a tour-de-force. It's visually stunning with obvious state of the art effects and seamless CGI for the most part. The alien technology is beautifully rendered, although the aliens themselves leave a lot to be desired. Likewise the movie slows to a crawl during the misconstrued slow-mo weapon loading sequences, which serve to remove the audience from the action rather than immerse them in the spectacle. Aurally the film is amazing, way to loud, but the sound design itself is full of merit. The soundtrack works well in places, less so in others. The liberally used rock classics that magnify the action are well timed, as is the wonderful interjection of the Pink Panther theme. Sadly it all comes apart when we get to the script. The story is woeful, with under developed characters serving only to spout unnecessary exposition and act as the most needless array of clichés seen in many a year. Even by the standards of sci-fi films based on board games this is ludicrous. Berg has a good eye for action but even he can't help but channel his inner Michael Bay when it comes to blowing stuff up. Given a couple more months to develop the script, a good edit job and 40 less decibels and we'd have a real contender on our hands here.As it stands Battleship is a completely mental, completely bombastic, completely stupid summer blockbuster. A missed opportunity perhaps but maybe just what the doctor ordered if you like your movies loud, crass and Americatastic.
__label__5 I should preface this by saying that I absolutely loved QoS (more than most)and Casino Royale. I'll start from the top.The Opening Credits: Visually the opening sequence was absolutely brilliant. Perhaps the best yet. However the Adele song choice was a poor one in my opinion. It's pap. Neither sexy (Goldeneye, Goldfinger) nor adrenaline pumping (Casino Royale, QoS). Sure the girl can sing... but so can Madonna.Friendly Fire: He gets shot with an assault rifle, falls 100+ feet and ends up at the bottom of a 50ft+ waterfall. Of course Bond doesn't need to be realistic but let's at least have a far-fetched explanation for his survival please. A small Turkish boy with a first aid kit who happened to be fishing at the bottom of the waterfall. Anything!Macau: Why no proper shots of Macau? Even just a decent panned intro. It's such a perfect setting for bond scenes.The Komodo Dragon Killing:No need for an Attenborough lecture. As convincing as fanged unicorns. The Bond Girl:A sex slave who very quickly gets shot. What a big letdown after Casino Royale and QoS. The London Feel The film had very real shots of an overcast and murky looking London and the whole film felt inherently British. Really nice.'Silva': I'm all for a fruity bond villain but what an anti-climax. Great intro, cool teeth but otherwise fairly bland. Certainly no Ernst Blofield or 'Leshiffre'. Weak Plot: The biggest failing of this film was the plot. It went from a mission to recover a stolen hard-drive to a mission to protect an old dear (who could've easily been killed several times). As for the motive, fairly tenuous and uninteresting: Blondie signed up for the Mi6 many years back, M sent him on a mission, things go wrong on the mission, Blondie gets captured (we don't get shown any of this) and years later Blondie feels as though he wants to kill an older, moodier and fairly unendearing M. The House Siege: This was cool. Easily on par with scenes from Shooter and The Bourne Identity (tall order). The Chapel: Be honest. When Silva walks into the chapel were you thinking:'Please don't shoot moody old M!'Or were you thinking:'NOOOOOOO! Please don't shoot the cool old guy with a sawn-off shotgun who's been giving Bond some lip! He's the only new face that's been given a proper character!' As for the axe to the back - not exactly bond-like. Conclusion: Ingredients for an epic film. But an extremely weak plot and an undeveloped villain made it difficult to care about the final outcome.
__label__5 The first Iron Man movie changed the way comic book adaptions were made. It (for better or worse) began the "Marvel Cinematic Universe" that climaxed with The Avengers. This is the first marvel movie to be released after The Avengers, and in many ways it proves that the series is still going strong, however, it is far from perfect.ACTING: 8/10The acting from the main cast members is great. Robert Downey Jr. continues to be the perfect Iron Man, I just can't imagine a better suited actor. His comedic timing is perfect, and he allows Tony Stark to be lovable while being a total jerk. Gwyneth Paltrow and Don Cheadle don't get a ton of screen time, however, they are wonderful when they do. Ben Kingsley, Guy Pearce, and Rebecca Hall are all fantastic and underused. The rest of the cast is perfectly adequate, however, there seems to be a theme of casting great talents and completely under using them.WRITING: 3/10This is the biggest failure of the movie. The comedy works well (partially thanks to Robert Downey Jr.) and the action scenes are good, however the plot hidden behind the popcorn fun is plain awful. I have never really liked movies that deal with "super soldiers" and "protecting the president," and this movie deals with both badly. The technology written into the series continues to become more and more ridiculous. And the twist is both easy to predict and manages to reduce the main villains role to nothing. Finally, the scene after the credits is a bit of a let down as it gives no hint towards the direction of the series. DESIGN: 6/10The design is just as good as previous films in the series, which is to say that it fits somewhere between satisfactory and slightly above average. The tech looks great despite its lack of plausibility, and the wardrobe and sets fit the overall tone of the movie. EFFECTS: 10/10The CGI is near perfect in this film, and there is a ton of it. There are scenes where Iron Man's suit magnetically attaches to Tony in separate pieces and it looks totally convincing. The explosions and impossible technology looks great too. MUSIC: 4/10The soundtrack in this movie is awful. Hans Zimmer has inspired many with his booming and electronic score for Inception and the Batman franchise. This concept has been replicated a hundred times since those movies, and in lesser hands it is nothing but a loud mess. This is the case with Iron Man 3. The score is loud and booming, and completely forgettable, dull and repetitive.VERDICT:This movie is mindless, unimpressive, forgettable, action packed... and thoroughly enjoyable. It is a great summer blockbuster popcorn movie that will leave your mind as soon as you leave the theater. That being said, if you liked The Avengers and Iron Man 2, you will likely enjoy this movie as well. Overall, I give it a 6.2/10
__label__5 It is still worth the high price of the 3-D admission to see some of the amazing animation and design, but the writing is extremely boring and clumsy, and the performances cannot save it. Too many liberties were taken with the originals here, and in no way improve upon them, it only barely resembles either of Carroll's books in theme and some specific scenes. There are some "Disney moments" that literally set off a gag reflex as well.The animation is quite stunning and wonderful though, as is the costuming and set design (in so much as there were sets and not just green screens, I'm sure SOME actual props were used). There are some clever elements that owe only to good visual design and direction I'm sure, as the only other clever bits in the dialogue were the parts directly lifted from the originals.
__label__5 **This contains very minor spoilers** I was really very excited for this movie, but having seen footage of the Danger Room sequence at the beginning I didn't have very high hopes. If you've seen this scene, you can pretty much apply that to the whole movie. It contains cheesy dialog, sub-par performances (despite good actors), a horrible plot, but worst of all: it completely fails to represent the characters as they are in the comics or other movies. Magneto is a horrible strategist in the film- he doesn't care when other mutants are lost. Wolverine is completely out of character, the Pheonix Force makes Jean look undead rather than- you know- like a pheonix (I didn't see any flames), Juggernaut is a joke, Callisto is reduced to a poor man's Quicksilver (the super speed looks like it's from Smallville). In the final battle, most of the mutants there (Magneto!) could easily win the fight in an instant but instead use their powers in the most inefficient way possible: Magneto and Pyro "team up" to launch flaming cars at the enemy. Magneto could easily tear up a car and shoot everyone with a chunk of it, while pyro could BURN THEM. All the time spent on this movie went into thinking up the coolest special effects possible, and that failed too. It's not that I couldn't get past the bad plot, it was that the effects were tied to the plot in a sickening way. Throughout the whole move I was thinking, "Singer, where art thou". The best part of the movie- and I REALLY hate to say it- was the new Superman Returns trailer at the beginning. He gets shot in the eye slo-mo and it bounces right off!
__label__5 "Monsters University" has my vote for the most unnecessary prequel, story-wise at the very least. If Mike Wazowski is working at Monsters Inc. in the original movie, then this movie's ending is a foregone conclusion; he'll either triumph over adversity or find a loophole. It's got a pretty good cast, but Charlie Day steals the movie easily (and it's not the first time). But it lacks the heart and soul of the original. Even Ratzenberger feels shoehorned in, and he's the studio's quirky Easter egg. It's not a weak effort because a lot of work went into this. But the story's deeply lacking.5/10
__label__5 Mildly entertaining look at the origins of the characters from 'The Wizard of Oz" has everything down pack. From great visuals to imaginative set pieces, this film has everything. Its does not have however a single interesting character outside of the film's main villain and her good witch sister. Not to mention the fact that its script is as thin as a sheet of paper and the plot reeks of a Star Wars prequel but with out the light sabers. Its main hero Oscar Diggs (Played by James Franco) is not interesting at all and it does not help matters that Franco is miscast and while Oscar is supposed to be a bit of a conman with a heart; Franco comes across more as a degenerate deviant with his performance. While Franco is sputtering out of control performances wise, it falls on his co-stars to pick up his slack and one of them is Rachel Weisz, who plays the oldest witch sister Evanora, who rules Oz with a velvet iron glove. She is manipulative and cunning and in my mind the best thing about this film. While most of the things in this film are mostly kids stuff, Weisz infuses her character with a wickedly sassy seductive charm that elevates this film past most of its problems. Her showmanship with the material is greatly appreciated, especially when after a while; you are getting quite annoyed with most of the characters in this movie, especially the computer generated ones. Another actor who picks up Franco's slack is Michelle Williams, who is very charming in a good girl kind of way and is the only actor in the film who can hold the screen with Weisz performance wise. The movie could have worked much better if it just had Weisz and Williams as the leads but unfortunately, its not and we have to suffer though Franco trying to be charming in a squirmy kind of way and suffer though probably the movie's worse offense, which is the character of Theodora played by Mila Kunis, who redefines the word "Miscast". Theodora is supposed to be innocent in this film and gradually lose her innocence to become (Spoiler) the iconic "Wicked Witch of the West". Unfortunately, Mila comes across as interesting as a block of wood in this film and her transformation towards the climax ends up being more funny in a very bad sort of way than revealing. It does not help matters that Mila looks as disinterested in her character as the audience is and a better actor with more range could have brought more to it.All and all, it had its moments but its problems weight it down.
__label__5 I love anything to do with The Wizard of Oz. The story is a classic, and the 1939 Judy Garland film is for me one of the best films ever made. And I liked the idea of having a prequel to this story, and Oz the Great and Powerful had potential to be great in the right hands. I was kind of intrepid though as well because I heard a lot of bad things about it, and while it was not as bad as I'd heard it was a disappointment. And this was including me taking into account that it is a family movie and that any film should be judged on its own merits.Oz the Great and Powerful does have a fair few things that redeem it. I loved the visuals, I thought on seeing the trailer that they looked amazing and on seeing the film itself I still stand by that. The colours are truly beautiful to look at and the cinematography and camera angles don't intrude too much and allow us to properly enjoy the visuals. The costumes and sets equally fanciful, Michelle Williams in particular looks radiant, while the CGI effects have moments where they are generic, but on the most part they're fine. Danny Elfman's score doesn't have the whimsical, poignant magic that his Edward Scissorhands score has for example, but it is both sparkling and rousing and you really feel a sense of fantasy and adventure when hearing it. When it comes to individual scenes, the highlight was the expertly done and thrilling tornado sequence, it looked great and didn't feel dragged out too long. And there are two performances that are good. Coming off the best was Rachel Weisz who is deliciously sassy and seductive. Michelle Williams occasionally comes across as a little too airy-fairy, but she also makes a good impression, being wondrous visually and being full of charm and benevolence.James Franco and Mila Kunis did absolutely nothing for me though. Franco I've liked before in other films, the finest example being 127 Hours, but I did feel that in perhaps an attempt to be quirky that he wildly overdid his part, his smirking- almost like he was stoned- grated really fast. Kunis unfortunately is bland personified, granted she was not given much worthwhile to work with but I just could not buy her at all as a Wicked Witch and there is no expression at all in her eyes. The voice acting is serviceable but never much more than that. Franco and Kunis are not the only let downs to the film. The script, story and pacing were really big issues in this regard. The script tries to incorporate too many things all at once and instead of doing this successfully it comes across as muddled and stilted instead. The story starts off well, but quickly becomes contrived, paper-thin and rushed with next to none of the enchantment, sense of wonder and emotional resonance that the story and 1939 film have. Relationships are introduced quickly and end even quicker than that. The overall pacing was rushed, but the lack of any genuine excitement also eventually made the film a sludge as it tries to stretch a very thin plot longer than it needed to be. The characters also are ones that we never learn anything about and consequently I didn't properly care for a single one.All in all, has its good points and things to enjoy but this Oz is not as great or as powerful as it had potential to be. Not bad, but disappointing all the same. 5/10 Bethany Cox
__label__5 Beautiful yet vapid prequel to "The Wizard Of Oz" that is plague by not only by the numbers script but the questionable judgment of the people behind the scenes of the making of the film. The CGI effects are good and the characters created by those effects are cute but they are not strong enough to hide the films real problems. The script is so by the numbers that you can envision the twist and the ending five minutes into the film. Prequels are generally predicable because it set before the events of a prior movie but this film just did not have any originality to it and was just lazy in its set up. The script is not the only problem here; some of the casting is also off by a large margin as well. James Franco was not the first actor to be considered to play the character of Oscar Diggs but you can see a hundred better actors who could have done the role justice before you can ever think of Franco in the role and he does not disappoint in proving how miscast he is. Franco is terrible, so terrible that he is distracting to the film. He definitely does not care about his performance and it shows. Franco just swaggers in as if he is above the material and the actors around him while in reality, his performance is worse that the script of this film. Making his character so unlikable that you really do not want to watch or care about him. While Franco is in his own little world, Mila Kunis just looks lost in her performance. She is not believable as the wicked witch of the west and just comes across as lightweight compare to her sisters played by Rachel Weisz and Michelle Williams who are both much better actors than this film deserved. Weisz in particular gives the film's best performance because she at least makes an effort with the lazy script she has to work with and just has fun with it. Her character is the typical Disney villain but in Weisz's capable hands, she becomes more and that does translate on screen. You as an audience member are swept off your feet by Weisz's enthusiasm for her role and the movie becomes better off because of it. Williams does the same, making her sweet tooth character a joy to watch as well and brings a real sincerity to the role which is a god sent because of how insincere Franco is in his.It is a beautiful movie and the CGI does not give you a headache but other those things and the efforts of Weisz and Williams, The movie has too many strikes against it thanks to the script and the miscasting of Franco and Kunis.
__label__5 I can't say I went in to the theater with high hopes. I did enjoy the first installment of this unnecessary reboot, almost anything seemed like a step up from "Spiderman 3", and Garfield felt way more natural than Maguire, and Emma Stone is always welcome. But after seeing the first trailer I thought it seemed like a total mess, and I wasn't convinced by Electro one bit. Unfortunately I was spot on, I hoped to at least get an enjoyable time at the cinema with my friends, but ended up feeling quite uncomfortable and laughing throughout most of the film. Garfield and Stone has their chemistry and does their best with the incredibly thin script and cheesy one-liners, but their potential quite beautiful scenes together gets lost in the over-full and messy plot. I can't buy an emotional scene that is interrupted by heavy dub-step and a blue electric guy.Oh Jamie Foxx, how did you go from Django to this? Before he goes all CGI-Electro he tries to play the nerdy unseen scientist (with a worse comb-over than Christian Bale's 'Hustle'-look). As Electro it's hard to say how much is his fault, and what can be blamed on the rest, I'd go with the rest. You don't sympathize with him nor do you believe how fast he becomes this super-villain. Everything that Dane DeHaan did so well in "Chronicle" just feels unnatural and (maybe not misplaced, but wrong) here. And his character development is way too rushed and quite unnecessary for this film, it just becomes another sub-plot standing in the way of what really matters. Sally Field does good work as Aunt May, but leaves no lasting mark. Paul Giamatti's Russian criminal is just in the way and only gives a couple of dreadful and laughable scenes. And then there's the mad German scientist named Kafka and I rest my case. The action and visuals isn't bad, but still doesn't make up for the low "trying to be Marvel"-comedy and horrific soundtrack, a soundtrack that almost itself destroys the film throughout the exhausting 142 minutes. And sometimes it feels like the movie is taking us as an audience to be stupid, with pointers to what is going to happen. I would like to say that you might enjoy it if you just try and see it for what it is, but it's hard, but hopefully possible! It had an interesting start, with a glimpse inside the past and Peter's parents, but it's left underdeveloped, as is almost everything else, to make room for all its action and villains.It's amazing how the difference between two big-budget superhero-movies can be so huge, if you put this against "Captain America: The Winter Soldier", a great and, opposed to this one, original film. Oh how I wish that Marc Webb could have continued with a "(500) Days of Summer"-esque movie instead, he could keep the sub-plots starring Garfield, Stone and DeHaan, and it could very well be a great film, and probably not such a waste of talent.
__label__5 WARNING: SPOILERS *****************Visually, a feast, but a leisurely script leads to a muddled climax. A fan of the original since 1983, I had been looking forward to this for a long time. The trailers & stills looked very promising. Sadly, while it looks good, some questionable decisions have been made, and the film doesn't seem to know what to do or where to go.Some of the original concepts seem to have been dumbed down for audience acceptance. Programs, formerly living a uniquely digital lifestyle, sipping energy from pools, worshiping users, are now just like regular dudes with funny clothes. They work, sleep, eat, drink, and go to clubs. Perhaps this dumbing down is why this film poses more questions than it answers. Why has the digital world taken on analogue characteristics like dust, atmosphere & functionless water? Why do the digital Recognizers, previously smooth, humming machine menaces, now have exhaust flames & jet engine noise?Why do light cycles sound like they have gasoline engines? How can a totalitarian digital society have "homeless" programs (who drink from brown paper bags yet)? Why do all the programs now leap around and pose exactly like Asian martial artists? Just, why?? How were the Isomorphic algorithms going to change the world? How was CLU going to conquer the world with a bunch of computer programs who were good at throwing disks?When young Flynn switched off the server, was the world destroyed? (if so, shouldn't he have waited, since (a) the threat had been stopped, and (b) in case there were still some of those useful ISOs surviving, especially since he (and the audience) have no clue as to how to use them?) If hours in the digital world were minutes in the real one, and in the real world it's been 20 years, does that mean that old Flynn had been trapped for up to 1200 years? (which might explain why he's channeling The Dude from "The Big Lebowski")The biggest disappointment for me was the almost complete absence of the title character. By the end of the film, I still wasn't sure where Tron was. I had to read some summaries on the Internet to find out.I would have preferred it if Tron, in his last act, saved the day. Sadly, when he did (briefly) appear, he was ineffective and pointless.I was a fan of the original Tron. Original ideas and logic have been dropped for populism & eye candy. The subtle humor & in-jokes are absent. This is a disappointing followup.
__label__5 We hoped it would never happen, but no one is perfect. Even the best can stumble. This had to happen eventually. Even the string of terrific Disney's classic films and the 90s Disney Renaissance didn't last forever. I'm afraid that, yes, Pixar has made a bad film.Cars 1 was their least ambitious film. The story was predictable and character development obvious making it their most mediocre film. It was good but it lacked that little extra touch that made their films great. However, they had some great side characters, a heart, and wonderful scenes that elevated it up beyond most other films. But ever since this film's announcement I always wondered why. McQueen had his story and there's not much else to tell. Like Finding Nemo, where else is there to go? And I'd rather see sequels to better movies like The Incredibles, even Bug's Life seems to have more potential. It's easy to see why they made a sequel to it, since all you need to do is go to Disneyland or any Disney Store and see it covered in McQueen and Mater, which happened to be two my of three year-old cousin's first words. Off all the Pixar films, Cars made the most with the merchandise.The biggest problem is the story. Cars 1, while predictable, was touching. Cars 2 has almost no heart or character development. The focus shifts from McQueen to Mater. McQueen had his story in the first and there's little to tell here. He has one character moment that's essentially the same realization as the first film's. The problem with Mater is that he's such a simple character. Everything about him is on the surface for all to see. He's the same person throughout the movie, with one predictable realization which goes no where, that he doesn't warrant his own film. He's like Kronk from The Emperor's New Groove. They're both terrific side characters but lack enough complexity for a full story. And Larry the Cable Guy has always been better with the other Blue Collar guys rather than on his own.While Cars 1's highlight was its side characters, this movie almost abandons them. They do nothing. McMissile is a moving plot device and little more. Shiftwell is supposed to be a love interest but lacks any interesting moments. The rest of Radiator Springs basically sit back while McQueen and Mater have all the fun. Their stories and character are pushed aside so Larry can have fun being Mater. Because of this, there are almost no funny little side scenes where characters just have fun being themselves. Instead, most of the humor is derived from seeing Mater do silly things.The look is impressive but not more than anything else Pixar's done. With each movie, the studio has pushed the graphics into new levels. Each movie has had some wow moment where audiences can't help but be amazed by what they're seeing. There were times in Cars 1 when it looked almost real. Cars 2 lacks any wow factor. One of the most impressive sets, Tokyo, were already spoiled by the Tokyo Mater short. This more than anything makes me wonder if Pixar was even trying to up the ante or if they were just using what they had to make a movie a year.Spies and Cars seems to work well together. After all, any Bond or Bourne film will easily demonstrate why the two go together. Indeed, the opening scene on the drilling platform is easily the best with the fast chase and cool gadgets. But they weren't able to properly combine the racing and spy elements, almost as if you're watching two movies at once. There's too much spy stuff for the racing to be interesting, which becomes pointless against the overpowering and overly clichéd spy story. Perhaps Pixar should have set it as simply a spy movie set in the Cars universe and had McQueen and his friends in cameos or as a background story.Another lousy spot is the music. Cars 1 had a terrific soundtrack with excellent uses of popular songs like Life is a Highway and Route 66. But there's not one memorable song or music cue in this movie. Giacchino usually does terrific work like with The Incredibles, Ratatouille, and Up. But he too fumbles the ball here. Perhaps he was just uninspired by what he had to work with.Cars is Lasseter's pet project. But I think he's too close to it. He's got that Lucas Star Wars prequel trilogy problem. The people around him either were in awe of the man who made Pixar and Toy Story or they were afraid to hurt his feelings since he loves the Cars franchise so much. Pixar efforts have been so well done because they were collaborative efforts, each fixing each other's problems to make a better project. But with Lasseter off working more directly with Disney, he really should have had a co-director or perhaps given the reins to someone else like he did with Toy Story 3.I almost rated this movie higher. It is fun while you're watching it, even if as soon as it's over it becomes too easy to pick apart the problems. But this is Pixar. They've dominated the animation market since Toy Story and have been pushing the boundaries at the Academy Awards ever since. To see them stumble with a not-so-great film would be one thing. But they're coming off from two Best Picture nominees to a movie that's simply flashy but with little substance. Kids will love the bright colors and silly antics, but parents will hate having to then buy twelve new Mater toys. Cars 2 is stalled and in need of a tune-up.
__label__5 I went to see Green Lantern because a friend of mine was boycotting DC for such a long time because there has been no release of a Green Lantern movie. Sure, there were plenty reincarnations of Batman and Superman, but where's Green Lantern? Someone out there listened to his plea, and the result is this.....A mess.I will go on record to say that it's at least enjoyable. Even though the movie seems to be everywhere in its storytelling, with characters being underdeveloped and random things just happening. I would say that during this movie, I had a hard time finding a bathroom break. I was at least interested to see where the movie is going.Let me try to explain this movie: There is this elite group of Green Lanterns led by Sinestro (well played by Mark Strong) who are having a hard time beating this giant alien in the Milky Way called The Parallax. So when their alien friend who's name I cannot remember falls to earth and dies, his ring is sent out to choose a new victim, and somehow it chooses Ryan Reynolds. Mr. Reynolds discovers that he has a new ability, and that he is the earth's only hope, but he can't handle that until the end of the movie. Not only that, but some doctor guy turns into an evil alien which, I guess, is controlled by Parallax, and Ryan has to stop him too.I must say that I was intrigued by the doctor subplot where he is not accepted by his father (Tim Robbins) and slowly goes insane until he turns into John Travolta from Battlefield: Earth. I also liked seeing Ryan Reynolds in the movie because he brings energy to what could otherwise be a boring movie, and I was enjoying both stories that were coming along. The problem is that the whole movie felt disjointed, and not only did scenes felt random, but events turn random too.Like the scene where Reynolds is chosen by the ring. It just happens out of nowhere. One minute he's talking to this kid (which never served much purpose to the film) and then all of a sudden he's walking and gets carried away in green light to that dying alien dude. This happened in more than one occasion. Also the CGI was all over the place, even on Reynold's outfit, and it's rather distracting. It's very vibrant and colorful (which is good), but it looked very cartoonish and took me out of the film. I also mentioned that the characters are underdeveloped, which goes a lot to Sinestro and that Parallax thing they are trying to fight. Heck, even the love interest felt underdeveloped. By the end of the film, I felt like I barely knew the characters, with just a likable performance by Ryan Reynolds.However, Green Lantern isn't boring, just purely average. I think the reason why I sort of liked this film was that I went into it not expecting much. I already had groups of people telling me that this film is awful before its release, so I ended up getting a little more than I expected. Just a little. It was still entertaining, to say the least.
__label__5 We are getting decent and compelling superhero movies these days, which is a great thing that happened to the genre. Now "Green Lantern" is one of those films that also needs to be powerful, but it ends up being a generic cheesy cinema. "Green Lantern" is not perfectly horrible or the worst superhero movie ever but it's just too much exposition and a whole lot of green cheese."Green Lantern" has a great concept. Just like the other superhero films, the storytelling also needs to be compelling. Unfortunately, the film gets lazy to tell the story so they just threw a lot of narration and even the ones that are not quite necessary to narrate. The action is not very amazing. it's just showing us how eye-candy the effects are.At least the movie is loyal to its corniness. Hal Jordan's wacky imagination and the aliens' zany looking faces. The CGI is pretty. The performances were entertaining enough. Ryan Reynolds is doing his same old thing. Mark Strong didn't appear so much (which is disappointing) but still he's awesome.It's disappointing because they're making the interesting villains into uninteresting. Example, Parallax should be terrifying and menacing. Instead he's a scrambled egg who eats fear. Not really terrifying nor menacing. Peter Sarsgaard's mad scientist performance was pretty good but the only thing he did in this film is crying in agony and use his telekinesis powers in a lame way."Green Lantern" just wanted to show its beautiful visuals. It's not a very bad thing but the filmmakers doesn't take its storytelling so seriously. It can be entertaining for some reason but it can also be forgettable. It's good to see it in the big screen for the visuals but you don't want to see it again after that. This might be the weakest superhero movie of the year. Even "The Green Hornet" is better than this. "Thor" might be the best superhero film of 2011 so far in my opinion because even though the action isn't great, at least there is a compelling storytelling. The sad thing is, both the action and the storytelling are not compelling in "Green Lantern".3D? Very dark!
__label__5 After using IMDb for about 10 years this is my first time writing a review so here goes.I am a big fan of DC Comics and Green Lantern is definitely one of my favorites as I even own quite a volume of comics of him. I wasn't really looking forward to this movie since every time I do I always got let down. My first thought after hearing Parallax being in the movie I was wondering if they would do it like in the comics. But that didn't make sense because this is only the first movie and the studio would make it as an origin movie not something else. The whole thing seemed a little tad slow and I think they tried to do character developments and get the story going but even for a fan I kind of found it hard to follow. It wasn't engaging enough I suppose. There were some action scenes but that also didn't really live up to expectations. I thought they had the right director and actors for this movie but something was missing from the comics. If they ever make a sequel to this movie I do hope they hire someone from DC to write a script and have the sort of impact Iron Man did back in 2008. I do have a feeling this is going to be another Superman Returns though.
__label__5 Let me start this off by saying that TS is very but not entirely different from the previous installments. T1 was thrilling and fun, T2 elaborated and twisted the original's plot and themes, and the unnecessary T3 is almost entirely ignored (aside from the Kate Connor character).Now TS takes to the beginnings of the battles and war between Skynet and humanity. If you know anything at all of Fallout series of games, the atmosphere and landscape of those games is almost identical to that of TS'.I'm sick of reading the same review (ie. Plot sum up etc.) we are all familiar, so let me say this simply with Pros and COnsPros -----Solidly continues the legacy without repeating the same idea (send a terminator back in time to kill one of the Connors) - Characters are likable (although kinda wooden here and there) - Action is fantastic - Score is actually engaging (i love the old school synth soundtrack, but i prefer Danny Elfman's live strings more) - Visually fantastic (direction, cinematography)Cons ----Stated above, while the characters are likable they are wooden-ish - Script is a little rushed (a few moments of cheese :P)There you have it.Not THE BEST MOVIE EVER MADE!!!!!! but a damn fine film and WORTHY film to be included with T1 and T2.
__label__5 The story of how World War Z was made is a lot more harrowing and suspenseful than the film itself. After going way over-budget and enduing a complete revision and reshoot of the final act, WWZ wasn't exactly set up for success. Ultimately the movie is completely forgettable and uneven, but not offensively bad or objectively terrible in any sense. What struck me about it was how much of a wasted opportunity it was, given how interesting and entertaining the source material is.Having read the book World War Z, I could tell from the trailers for this movie that it wouldn't exactly be a faithful adaptation. I thought that the most interesting aspects of the book were its exploration of how the Zombie plague affected social and political structures across the world. Anything like that is completely ignored in the film, but I can at least understand how the filmmakers thought that those aspects wouldn't work in a single feature length movie. What I can't understand is how the filmmakers seemingly ignored the book's most obviously cinematic content. The book features a lot of setpiece action scenes, and to be fair, many of these involve world cities falling to zombie infestation and the movie does do enough to cover this. However, the book's immense battle scenes - the meat of the titular Zombie War, such as the Battle of Yonkers, nuclear war between Pakistan and Iran, Chinese civil war and massive formation combat against zombies - are completely absent. I was very surprised that they did not cover these, especially the Yonkers scene, because they would obviously fit so well into a film and the script, even as it is now, could easily be tweaked to include or at least mention them. The action that did make it into this film is very unsatisfying and obscure thanks to the restrictions of the PG-13 rating, and the narrative around is not engaging enough to really get me invested in it.I was also surprised at how cheap this movie looked. This film cost hundreds of millions of dollars to make, but it's hard to see where it all went on the screen. Swarms of zombies look very fake and nonthreatening, and in some cases individual zombies are computer animated, which gave me bad flashbacks to I Am Legend's awful CGI overload. Aside from the opening scenes in Philadelphia and the middle act in Jerusalem, there are no big outdoor sets. A South Korean airbase is portrayed as a series of dark rooms; too much of the movie takes place in an airline seat; there is a lot of sitting around inside of the aircraft carrier, etc. The sense of scale is very inconsistent, and this is accentuated in the bizarre final act, which was obviously the focus of the infamous reshoots as it feels like a completely separate movie. I consider myself a patient viewer, but this very long and dull scene started to bring me down after a while, and my less patient viewing audience eventually fell completely out of sync with the film and began to make fun of it at every opportunity - not really a fair criticism of the film, but it's a real issue when it can't hold an audience's attention. The final act does actually have an interesting idea at its heart, albeit one that completely doesn't connect with anything in the book, but I just didn't think it was a well executed concept. The very different style and tone of these scenes makes it feel like a completely different movie.Again, while there was nothing all that terrible about WWZ, I didn't think it was anything to get excited about. In other words, a perfect 5/10 movie. I wish they were more aware of the source material's potential because without the best and most cinematic aspects of the book, WWZ (the film)and WWZ (the book) only share a title and the central premise of a zombie plague, which is not an original idea in itself.
__label__5 Oh, Hollywood. You saw the zombie apocalypse coming didn't you? Not a literal apocalypse of course, just 16 dozen different zombie books, graphic novels, games and TV shows taking over the world like the plague, and you just had to have your piece of the pie, didn't you?World War Z is based on the 2006 novel by Max Brooks. The novel garnered some quite positive reviews, praised for its international and political scope. It also caught the eye of producer and star Brad Pitt, who after a long struggle with studios, directors, producers and other Hollywood zombies, managed to put together a half decent movie with director Marc Forster.Half decent? Well, WWZ certainly isn't a bad movie. You've got the long-time Oscar-deserving Pitt playing Gerry Lane, a likable, good-looking family man who retired as a UN investigator to spend more time around his wife and daughters. This is all about to change obviously, because after the now seemingly mandatory news-footage-montage introduction, Gerry is called back by the UN in exchange for his family's safety on their big boat.It sounds good enough, but the problem is that WWZ's political/international context is nowhere to be found so we're left pretty much to 28 Days Later with blockbuster pretentiousness. Sure, Gerry travels around the world and makes a few long distance phone calls, but there's never anything remotely compelling enough to warrant his travels and whenever the plot does manage to come close to something it quickly sets it aside in the interest of keeping this summer blockbuster light, family friendly and internationally marketable.After Quantum of Solace there was much uncertainty about Forster's ability to direct action and after WWZ, guess what? There still is. Granted, it's never boring, but when the other elements that should've made the film aren't there it should be more than "never boring". Paramount's marketing certainly didn't help; if you've seen the trailers then you've seen the whole plot and LITERALLY every single action set piece, in chronological order too. You know when you see a trailer and think "they put all the good parts in"? Well, this time they put the whole movie in. The more hardcore genre fans might also want to look elsewhere if they're seeking gory zombie kills; there isn't much of that either as its PG-13 rating might suggest.Brad Pitt is really the film's only strength. Much like Tom Cruise, Brad's got enough talent to singlehandedly pull you through a not-so-great movie without you hating him for it. And at almost age 50 you can't really blame him for wanting to star in his own big blockbuster franchise for the first time in his career when he could've played any superhero he wanted years ago. "Franchise" of course, if permitted by the audience, because this is one movie that desperately wants to have sequels.
__label__5 I liked the book. I watched this with an open mind that it may be "altered" to be more entertaining as a movie.Still thought it was way too far off from the book to even have the name "World War Z". If they were going to change this much, there was no need to use WWZ. To people who don't know the book, they won't care. To those who do, they will be insulted by the movie. Isn't the whole point of adapting a book to a movie, based on the fact that the book was a success? Thus implying that a good portion of your target audience are the book readers. So why intentionally slap the readers in the face? It makes no sense when you watch this movie, since it probably resembles 20% or less of the book's story, concept and characters.Even with the book differences, I could have lived with this movie being a solid zombie movie if the movie was actually about zombies. The "infected" may be fast and united, but the movie is pg-13 and that is just baffling. How can you possibly expect to make a movie like this and limit yourself with a pg-13 in an attempt to sell more tickets to kids? That's pretty much trading quality for quantity...or "selling out".It was hard enough to watch this and hardly see any resemblance of the source material that was amazing, but then you are also limited to pg-13 action and violence for a movie of this nature. There was almost no blood, diluted violence, bad CGI and annoying "cut-away" action scenes. Very disappointing.
__label__5 *Spoilers*I tried not to get myself hyped up too much with this film because when Matthew Vaughn left I was pretty bummed out. I loved First Class and the new feel that X-Men had, I was really looking forward to him carrying that on. Unfortunately, Bryan Singer took over. Even with this lowered expectation, I found myself sitting in the cinema multiple times thinking 'Ok we get it, we understand what is at risk here, please lets get on with it!'. To start with the good points.The opening - visually amazing and the film was off to a great start. Blink was my favourite of this sequence, her powers of portals were used in really creative ways and kept the action flowing well.I didn't think I would like Quicksilver at all but I found all the scenes he was in to be extremely entertaining and gave the film the comic book feeling again. You know, that feeling of just enough realism to make it believable yet enough humour to add the fun comic book side of things? He was that in spades and I found my self disappointed when he didn't join up with the X-Men for the rest of the film.The actors. It was great to such an ensemble on screen and I'd even go as far as saying the young Charles (James McAvoy) stole the show, with the young Magneto (Michael Fassbender) a close second.There were some nice little nods to most of the other X-Men films and it was good to see all the tie-ins. Also the very few humorous parts, one which comes to mind is when Wolverine walks through the metal detector and it doesn't beep. He looks back in confusion, expecting it to go off. These were great but were far to few.Now for the not so good points.Repetition. How many times do we need to hear 'We need to stop Mystique or it's the end of all mutants!?' in some form or another. You see this visually in the past with the older X-Men getting killed off. You don't need to keep telling the audience this as it's what we're seeing! Also, 'Mystique's DNA is the key', 'They can't get Mystique's DNA or else (you guessed it), it's the end of all mutants!'. This got old really quickly and unfortunately I came out of the theatre more frustrated than anything, forgetting the good parts that I liked.Hollywood seems to think scripts don't matter nearly as much anymore, thinking it can be covered up by fabulous special effects. This is not the case at all and I hope writers are allowed to be more creative instead of getting creativity and risk taking shut down by the suits sitting in their offices.Lack of action. We're watching this film for over two hours and the best action sequences you get is at the beginning! The ending sequences would have appealed to me a lot more if I hadn't been so frustrated with the script for over half the film.All and all, this is a must watch film - but I'll only be seeing it the once. Singer, please pass the torch on to someone else and get the fresh feeling back that was First Class.
__label__5 I think that pretty much sums up the execs attitude when making this film. Great cast, excellent performances, spot on effects. Too bad the script was dog food. Lets start with the end of Xmen Last stand. Professor Xavier is killed right? Well the post credit scene suggests his consciousness survived. Although, we hear his voice, we don't actually see him (Patrick Stewart) cause it would be a whole new body, yes? Next comes Xmen Origins: Wolverine and First Class, nothing that ties this together. While X3 does close the book, it seems, on Scott and Jean, the fate of Charles Xavier is an unresolved issue. Third film comes in, the Wolverine, and again nothing...except, wait. The return of Magneto and Professor X. Wolverine is as stunned by this as we're supposed to be. But it eludes to the upcoming DoFP. So we open in a dystopian future where, ta da, there's Charles. No explanation or anything. 8 years and 4 films, and they fail to resolve this issue. By the way, that Wolverine end scene was as if that never happened, because DoFP takes place 8-10 years later.I also found it a contrived plot device that time moves in sync, essentially time passes minute by minute in the past for wolverine as it does in the future. Ergo, Logan ages six hours in 1972, he ages six hours in the future (guesstimated at 2022). I would conservatively put Logan's sojourn into the past to be roughly a week. So for one week solid kitty pride is kneeling over him doing the time-phase thing the ENTIRE TIME. I guess she doesn't need to eat, sleep, or poop. Lets also not forget there are a dozen mutants just hanging out all this time. In a world of super sentinels, you'd think they would want to stay mobile, keep moving. I'd like to know, wtf happened to the world to have a future like that, cause I must of blinked and missed it. X3 and the wolverine left the world in a good place for humans and mutants. Then ker-pow, now we use robots from the 70s? Funny, sentinels were never mentioned in the original films, save for a make believe scenario in the danger room in X3. Yet here they are. In fact, in the year 2000, it seemed the world was just waking up to the idea of mutants. Ohhh that's right, apparently as of now NONE OF THOSE FILMS EVER HAPPENED. I guess wolverine never gets his adamantium then. Ohhh wait, how did he have adamantium claws in the future when he lost them in the Wolverine?Xavier suddenly being alive is never explained. The serum he uses to walk again is horribly contrived. It's supposed to explain why we see him walking around in the flashback sequence in X3, as well as the cameo in Origins, but fails. He can walk at the expense of losing his powers. Well, he used them in X3 and Origins. And even so, if the serum later got "perfected", why wouldn't he use it all the time then? Furthermore, if the serum repaired his back, it did nothing for what happened to him at the end of this film where the steel beam crushes his legs. While seeing certain characters fully realized (iceman using his ice- slide), the film lost its soul. What made the original films so great where how the characters connected with the audience, the social/moral implications of being "different", and the whole judgement, acceptance, and belonging that was such a heavy element to these films has been watered down into movie action schlock. If this film had any real emotional weight, it would of been all those characters in First Class being killed off by the government and the horrible experiments they performed on them. But since this happened off camera and just given a mere mention in this film, the audience is significantly less impacted. "awww, why they have to go and kill off Banshee?" vs, "OMG, you mother ******s, how could you? Avenge him!!!"Although the original films were always set in "the near future" there were never any elements that made it seem too futuristic. Like the 3d map in the first film, nothing like that existed but it was easy to see us progressing there. In other words, the world felt very real, grounded, believable. Now, it's 8-10 years after X3, and we got giant lasers, space ships, a re-imagined NYC skyline, etc. Like aliens in an Indiana Jones film, these things felt out of place. Then, we use Sentimels, which is far beyond our current technology and have them first invented in 1972? So before we even have the same technology that brought us Atari and cassette players, we have advance cybernetic hunter/killer robots? I get how putting metal in them while they were being shipped allowed Magneto to use his mutant power on them, but doesn't explain how he was able to reprogram them. He talks and they obey him, makes no sense....ahhhhh shut up and eat your popcorn. Ohhh, one last thing: Dear studio execs, please consider your largest demographic when choosing which characters bare butt to show off.
__label__5 What I thought worked in Luhrmann's Gatsby:I thought DiCaprio was a better Gatsby than Robert Redford (Redford was too old and underplayed the character). I thought DiCaprio understood a complex character and was adequately convincing.I Love Carey Mulligan and thought she was mostly convincing as Daisy.I liked it when the story stuck to Fitzgerald - which was about 75% of the time. (having just read the book again in the last 6 months, I recognized most of the Dialogue as true to the book)I thought the Costume Design was exquisite. Catherine Martin has done costume work for all of Baz Luhrmann's films and won an academy award for costumes in Moulin Rouge!(as well as being nominated for Romeo + Juliet and Australia. Her work is again superior here - one of the real strengths of the film...I thought the 2nd half of the movie was much better than the 1st. While I generally did not like the soundtrack I loved that Gershwin's' Rhapsody in Blue' snuck in there in the first scenes in Manhattan.The "Valley of Ashes" and the "Dr. T.J. Eckleburg, Occulist" sign are really well done - but sadly, the scenes there are so rushed and so downplayed as to prevent that location from being the symbol of death Fitzgerald intended it to be...The scene in Nick's house where Daisy is invited to tea and re-meets Gatsby.What I did not like about it:Every scene with Tobey Maguire in it. His Nick Carraway is too much of Gatsby's lapdog. He is too wide-eyed throughout the story. By the end of the movie I was praying for George Wilson to shoot him.Luhrmann's story telling device (Nick Carraway in a Sanitarium telling the story to a Doctor who encourages him to write it) - Really Baz Luhrman, you're gonna improve on Fitzgerald?Luhrmann's other story telling device: the words on the screen. Yuck!The Art-direction. Everything was too over-the-top and garish. Gatsby's house looks like a Disney creation. One might argue that this is okay because the new-rich are often garish. But part of the character that Fitzgerald wrote was that he was convincing as a monied man. The sound-track of the 1st half of the movie. Typically Luhrmann; and I have loved it in other contexts. It did not work in Gatsby. After the last party scene, the soundtrack was much better and the rest of the movie felt like Fitzgerald to me.BTW - I generally am a fan of Baz Luhrmann's work. I loved Romeo + Juliet while it was being panned by professional critics. And I found Moulin Rouge! delightful..Moet Champaign (which apparently bought huge stock in this movie)Joel Edgerton ('nuff said)The over-the-top garishness of the production is so distracting that the great social themes of the day are almost completely lost. They are so subtle int he book and they must be subtly depicted in cinema. They are so subtle as to be almost entirely lost in this production. When I first read the book I felt such sympathy for almost every character (except Tom Buchanan). I did not really care about the characters in this movie at all.That Damn green light - much too much. It is a powerful but subtle symbol in the book. Let a symbol be a symbol without having to constantly refer to it and without hitting your audience over the head with it.Because I did not think it entirely sucked, I will give it a 5. Adolescent girls will disagree with me (even as they are failing their Gatsby finals because they based it this mediocre retelling of the story). Fitzgerald and Gatsby fans will think I am being too generousNote to Hollywood - If you are going to make a movie based on a great work of literature, respect and humbly submit to that greatness, and make a movie worthy of the original.
__label__5 "In my younger and more vulnerable years my father gave me some advice that I've been turning over in my mind ever since. 'Whenever you feel like criticizing anyone,' he told me, 'just remember that all the people in this world haven't had the advantages that you've had.'" I have been frequently convinced that Baz Luhrmann does not know how to read, but I do have the advantage of literacy. However, I am not Nick Carraway and am not compelled to follow his father's advice that opens Fitzgerald's classic novel "The Great Gatsby".The first big problem with this movie version is that Tobey Maguire's Nick is not the same Nick that we know and love from the novel. This Nick is a quirky, agitated simpleton who has gone insane and has decided to become a writer. His voice and disposition was all wrong. Nick is no longer our credible vantage point into the selfish, boorish ways of the old money and new money of Daisy, Tom, Jordan and Gatsby in East Egg and West Egg. Much has been said about the lavish style of the film's sets and imagery and even more about the ludicrous soundtrack. But it mostly works. I don't think anyone can deny that the unrestrained money, extravagant mansions, brilliant costumes and choreography with a lively score just make the whole story seem more fun. I still have no idea what the point of the 3D was. Nick's bow-tie and the strange shooting style (mostly prominent early on) just made everything look cartoonish. At times, it looked like they were driving Gatsby's yellow car through the set of "Who Framed Roger Rabbit". The cartoon- stylings mostly affected Nick; Gatsby's parties are always supposed to be at least slightly surreal.Problems definitely arise in the beginning when Luhrmann chooses to use his typical flash editing and put some party scenes out of order. The randomness of it all and Nick becoming even farther removed from the narrator we once trusted, was only re-confirming that this was in fact the disaster many expected it to be. But then we met Gatsby. And more importantly, we met Daisy. And even more importantly, Gatsby met Daisy. It is literally impossible to live up to the expectations about Gatsby – both the man built on wild whispers of him being a war hero, but also the literary character so ingrained in popular culture that he has earned the adjective "great" in front of his name. Leonardo DiCaprio does as good a job as anyone could reasonably expect of him. He drew me in, and since Nick couldn't do that, it was even more than I could ask of him.One of the significant themes glowing throughout the novel is that of hope. Luhrmann even recognizes this with Nick referring to Gatsby as the singularly most hopeful man he has ever met. And then we would get a shot of the green light glistening off the water and through the fog from the end of Daisy's dock. The one thing missing from DiCaprio's interpretation of Gatsby was that earnest hope. I felt like a photographer on a model shoot: "Now give me a look of hope! No, that's anger. Give me hope! No, that's sadness. Give me hope! No, that's frustration. Fine, just give me another look of despair."Gatsby yearned for Daisy. And so do we. Carey Mulligan's Daisy was probably the most accurate character re-imagined from the novel. Starting from her introductory scene where she lay on the couch and the wind rustled her white curtains and her diamond ring sparkled in the daylight and then she turned to stare at Nick, she filled the screen with her ethereal beauty and faux innocence. I don't think it's surprising that the film takes its best form in the scenes where it's just Gatsby and Daisy.It's hard not to get wrapped up in the grandiosity of Gatsby, the grandiosity of the story, and the grandiosity of the film's visuals. It's a beautiful story and it does look beautiful on the big screen, but then comes the nagging suspicion that Luhrmann never actually read the novel. After all, half of the quotes are just paraphrased and are not the actual lines from Fitzgerald, and all of the scenes and famous imagery are only the ones that have seeped into the public consciousness (straight from the Cliffs Notes, perhaps). It should work well as a way to introduce another generation to this accomplished work of art, and I do applaud them for that, but it doesn't serve those who already know the book well.
__label__5 Movies are like food. There are some which are bitter and hard to swallow yet nutritious in every aspect, and those which are tasty albeit fattening. "Prince Of Persia" falls in the latter category, it's fun to watch and enjoyable, and where intelligence doesn't really matter.With Jerry Bruckheimer producing, lots of action, adventure and excitement are promised. With "Prince Of Persia: The Sands Of Time" he continues that promise. The film, from start to finish, is filled with well-choreographed sword-fighting action, fantastic special effects, sweepingly exotic scenery, lavish production design, and a good, sweeping music score by Harry Gregson-Williams. During the action scenes the camera does not shake that much compared to recent movies... although I admit there are one too many slow-motion sequences, that (although gorgeous to look at) distracts the audience too much. However Bruckheimer has a thing for slo-mo, so he's excused. The screenplay is about what you'd expect for a Hollywood-filmed Arabian adventure.The actors did a good job with the material they're given. Jake Gyllenhaal emits sex appeal and charisma throughout, walking through the film with ease. And he's quite good with the action sequences and fighting! Jake, welcome to the action hero club. A big surprise though is Gemma Arterton's performance as Princess Tamina; it is a HUGE improvement from her bland performances in "Quantum Of Solace" and "Clash Of The Titans"; here Arterton manages to inject wit, charm AND emotion into her character, not to mention looking gorgeous at the same time. However I was slightly disappointed by Ben Kingsley's performance - a two dimensional villain. Granted, Kingsley acted great in the role but I felt like it just didn't match to his standards. Alfred Molina has a funny supporting role and the rest of the cast did quite a good job, although I wish a little characterization would come from this.Still, Mike Newell's tight direction manage to put all these amazing factors together, thus he and Bruckheimer not only made an entertaining summer blockbuster, they also made arguably one of, if not the, best movies based on a video game ever. Period.In short, if you want to take a little escape from reality, go back in time to "Prince of Persia" and enjoy. It's fun and light on the brain.Entertainment value: 9/10Overall: 7/10
__label__5 The sight of Jake Gyllenhaal in a defiantly heroic pose with his imposing dagger on the poster of this 2010 fantasy adventure would seem to portend a film filled with self-parody, but alas, the actor takes the Aladdin-like title role semi-seriously. He's actually better than expected in the over-the-top derring-do role, but the movie itself is absurdly convoluted and overly ridiculous, even by the standards of the 2003 video game which inspired this CGI-saturated production. It should come as no surprise that the executive producer is action-schlock master Jerry Bruckheimer, whose commercial track record extends from "Beverly Hills Cop" to the "National Treasure" franchise. What did surprise me is that the director is Mike Newell, better known for soft, female-oriented fare such as "Enchanted April" and "Four Weddings and a Funeral". However, both he and Gyllenhaal give themselves almost entirely to Bruckheimer's more commercial, comic-book sensibilities.The fanciful plot takes place in the sixth century B.C. where we find a Persian street urchin named Dastan being adopted by King Sharaman for his courageous acrobatics in a crowded marketplace. He grows up with his loyal foster brothers Garsiv and Tus, the rightful heirs to the throne who lead the Persian army in an attack on the sacred city of Alamut. In a none-too-subtle allusion to current-day Iraq, the siege on Alamut comes from a wrongful assumption that the city's people are selling weapons to their enemies. Behind the assault is the King's brother and trusted adviser, the Dick Cheney-like Nizam. Elsewhere in the city, Dashan leads a swashbuckling rogue effort that leads him to the comely Princess Tamina who holds the secret behind the mythical Dagger of Time. The dagger has time-bending powers that allow the user to undo any mistake and redo any moment. In short order, Dashan gets framed for murder and escapes with Tamina and the dagger.All sorts of contrived shenanigans subsequently follow with the addition of Sheik Amar, an ostrich-racing thief who amusingly hates both taxes and the confining role of government, as the dagger elusively changes hands and a fatalistic sinkhole yields an ending that may remind you of Pam's unexpected discovery of Bobby in the shower on "Dallas". Aside from Gyllenhaal's muscular performance, Gemma Arterton (a memorable bit as Strawberry Fields in "Quantum of Solace") makes a fetching princess with plenty of predictable moxy. As Nizam, Ben Kingsley is not nearly as embarrassing here as he was in "The Love Guru", but his Oscar will continue collecting dust by itself with his string of disappointing movie choices. The ethnically versatile Alfred Molina steals the film in an act of petty larceny as the comical sheik. With so many special effects coming at the viewer uninterrupted, it was extremely difficult to find a core of humanity in this whole venture. But that's Bruckheimer's objective after all - to overwhelm your senses until you turn into the exact same pulp he chooses to present to all the fanboys and fangirls who will flock to this paper-thin extravaganza.
__label__5 It has a good score here on IMDb, but again it proved to be highly overrated. I gave it a 5 because it would have been much better, and contains no serious logical mistakes. It looks like the creators wanted some easy money, so they mixed everything together: robots, some fightings, aliens, etc... But. The story is poorly written, and basically follows a well known, and unbelievingly boring, and predictable path. No surprises at all. It's like nowadays no one really cares to write a good and exciting story, they concentrate only on the CGI effects, and they think the rest is not important. They copy-paste it from other movies and that's it. Apparently it looks working, sadly...
__label__5 I'm seriously surprised at most of the reviews that streamed about this movie. I think that critics and movie reviewers need some perspective, this is a Michael Bay film about transforming robots that kids used to play with (including me), so I went in with the right amount of expectations and got a very impressive visual experience. Now I'm not giving Micheal Bay an excuse to make a bad film but as far his movies go, this is definitely one of his finer ones.It has both its pros and cons. Pros: The story is a HUGE improvement over the second one, with some good twists added there and then, albeit a bit long. Now it's not Phenomenal story telling but acceptable enough for a good fun summer action film. The character development is able to keep me watching since the second one had absolutely NONE of it. The SFX are fantastic. This movie has the best CGI out of all 3 in the trilogy. Even the smallest robots look very realistic. The action scenes are AMAZING. I could actually differentiate between the good guys and bad guys this time, its amazing how much more depth it adds to the scenes. The highway scene is my favourite from the movie. The robots also get a lot more screen time and pay a more important part to the story than before. Unlike in the second one, each robot gets a fair amount of screen time and does something useful instead of just being the military's attack dogs.The cons: The humor is unnecessary and unfunny, although it has been cu down to minimal amounts .The romance is useless and awkward. The two main leads don't have any chemistry and I don't see why Shia needs to be paired up with a hot supermodel every film (or why he still even needs to be there at all). The acting is meh, shia and josh are great but the rest of the cast is pretty...meh. Rosie has very little acting talent, although she is a slight improvement over megan fox in terms of acting. The soundtrack is awesome but it sounds very very similar to the scores in the Dark Knight and Inception. The decepticons are still portrayed as mere evil destruction machines who hate everything, i wish they were more developed characters and that the relationships between the robots were explored more, I mean, whenever any bot dies, the others are literally cool with it two seconds later and do not mention the incident again. (SPOILER) Megatron is no longer the evil villain bent on dominian, instead he's simply the anti hero who is solely focused on saving his planet, HE EVEN SAVES PRIME'S LIFE at the last second simply because Rosie called him sentinel's bitch(SPOILER).The biggest problem which I had with the ending is that it is wrapped up too quickly, another 2 mins would have been fine. The movie's run time is very long, the first hour could've been done in 10 minutes.Overall I think the movie is able to deliver a very entertaining experience. Yes the trilogy would have been better in different hands but I was able to enjoy it as much as I did the first one. Just don't go in expecting anything revolutionary or brilliant, turn of your mind, ready the pop corn and enjoy.My rating: 7/10
__label__5 I reached a movie buff conclusion after the 2nd set of Star wars films. It's simply not possible to top an iconic, legendary film or series. The original can't be beat, and is next to impossible to match. Doesn't matter who directs, stars, the effects, etc - can't be done. Being sure of this in advance made the Crystal Skull easier for me to take - but I still have to be critical - because they let us down on the simple stuff. My other movie buff observation is - its ALWAYS the writing first. The STORY. The other stuff flows from that, making the film better or worse. In Indiana Jones and The Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, the writing failed us. The story does not hold together well and the dialog rings intermittently false throughout the film. I wanted to love the movie - but I was disappointed. When I heard they were all waiting for the "right" script to make another Indy film - that sounded good. But it appears that wasn't really true. I have to assume they all just decided the timing was "right" and it would be fun to get the old group together to do a flick - because the script was poor. The movie is more like an attempt at what an Idiana Jones adventure SHOULD look like - but with no real substance. A series of Indiana like dangerous situations and exploits strung together loosely with some attempts at humor thrown in. But no clear beginning to end plot. No disaster to avert, no one to rescue. Nothing in particular to root for... The actors seemed a bit uncomfortable to me - even Harrison Ford himself. Indy's love interest from Raiders (Marian) was underutilized and apparently a bit rusty in the acting department. She seemed to be just "thrown in" to add a nostalgic romantic element. The young Mutt character was well cast and did a good job with what he had to work with. The story arc regarding Indys age, his old love and young Mutt is dealt with - but could have been a better, more solid part of a more well written story. I'm glad I saw the film. I enjoyed seeing Indy again, but my hope that I'd be wanting to go again didn't pan out. It's worth only one visit - and that just to see some Indiana JonesLIKE adventures - in a story that doesn't make much sense. Sorry to break bad news to anyone who reads fan reviews - but that's my story and I'm sticking to it. George - you should have fussed over the writing a bit more and Harrison - I'd have waited longer for the right script. This was a weak effort and it didn't need to be. Mr Lucas and Mr Spielberg -you surprised me on this one - and let us all down on the story. Just my opinion :) Scott (an Indy Fan).
__label__5 The film is making zillions all over the world so what does it matter that it's just a mediocre attempt to recapture the energy, the youthfulness and the innocence of the previous installments? Love of cinema, that's what made me react the way I did. How can it possibly be that the most powerful people in the film world could agree that this was the script that everyone was waiting for? Shallow, opportunistic, over long, over crowded and implausible in a way the other films weren't regardless of their own implausibilities because one was connected tho the soul of the enterprise. There is no soul here to cling to. It's all by the numbers, odd numbers at that. Karen Allen returns! But look at the clumsiness of her re introduction. I was bitterly disappointed but maybe it's just me.
__label__5 I find it very amusing to read all the reviews here. I mostly agree with all the ones who found it disappointing, I can see why the Michael Bay-loving GTA-generation could give this a '10', however: Lots of CGI, fake green-screen action and style over substance.For me - a die hard Indiana Jones fan, who grown up attending premieres for the first three - this was a big letdown, primarily because of the script, which could have been written by a 11 year-old. A lot of Indiana Jones fans all over the world are probably scratching their heads these days, wondering why a script (Darabonts) which Spielberg called "the best he has read since Raiders", was scrapped by Lucas. So he could give us this? Tarzan meets X-files?It just didn't rock my boat, like the first three. I even found 'National Treasure II' more entertaining, than this mess.
__label__5 All I can really conclude about this movie is that it was just okay. I can forgive the ludicrous plot, the cheesy "family" dynamic of the film, the fact that Harrison Ford is old (which is really nowhere near the worst part of this). I don't even really mind Shia LaBeouf's presence. But many of the stunts and the action scenes are so implausible that it renders all of the action scenes implausible. For example, Shia LaBoeuf sword-fighting (!) spread-eagled on two moving vehicles; a boat going over not one, not two, but three waterfalls with absolutely no one getting a scratch (I mean, what are we watching here, The A-Team?); and the "if the film hasn't jumped the shark yet it certainly has now" moment--Shia LaBoeuf swinging through the jungle a la Tarzan. It was ridiculous. And because these parts are (forgive my overuse of the word) implausible, it highlights the fact that the rest of it doesn't work, either. After seeing a number of old series trying to come back for another run (Rocky Balboa, Rambo, the Star Wars Prequels) I have concluded that when filmmakers attempt to cash in on a once-popular series, artistically the best they can hope for is to break even. Sometimes there really is nowhere to go but down. I wanted to love this, but the most charitable thing I can say is that it was just okay. Very disappointing.
__label__5 I knew Brave was in trouble from the first few words spoken in voice over as the film began. Merida (Kelly Macdonald) uses the words "fate" and "destiny" interchangeably. This muddle is at the heart of the film's problem.What's the difference between fate and destiny? Philosophers through the ages have distinguished the two based on choice. Fate is something that happens TO you. Destiny is something that happens BECAUSE of you.Fate is at the root of such words as "fatal" and "fatalistic." It implies LACK of choice. Philosopher Rollo May says fate is what we are born into, something that cannot be changed and that we have no control over, such as race.May says destiny is what we create based on what we were given. Destiny is all about CHOICE. It's what we choose to do with what we have.Merida is born a princess. She can't change that. Her mother, Queen Elinor (Emma Thompson), is grooming Merida for a role as future queen. After a long series of wars King Fergus (Billy Connolly) has united the four clans. Merida's duty is to help keep the clans unified though a judicious marriage.Merida is a wild rebellious child with special talent as a rider and archer. The demonstrations of her skills are absolutely breathtaking. She is unique and extraordinary and initially looks very much like a Power of Idealism character.These kinds of characters are driven by their passion. They abhor what they consider to be a mundane, boring, or mediocre life. They want to seize some grand destiny that is uniquely theirs.Well-drawn female protagonists in this vein are: Paikea (Keisha Castle-Hughes) in Whale Rider and Jess Kaur Bhamra (Parminder Nagra) in Bend it Like Beckham. Unlike Paikea or Jess, Merida doesn't fight for what she believes is HER destiny. Merida, instead, decides to change her mother! Perhaps this is because Merida has no clue about what she is really called to do.Now the story gets even muddier. With the help of an old witch's spell Merida does indeed change her mother — into a bear.Instead of figuring out who she is and what she uniquely is called to do, Merida must again deal with who her mother is. In the struggle over the middle part of Brave, Queen Elinor becomes the protagonist.The definition of a protagonist, in my book, is the person who makes the biggest emotional sacrifice in the story. It is the person who undergoes the most profound transformation. This is clearly Elinor on every front.Queen Elinor is a Power of Conscience character. She is a strict and demanding taskmaster, a perfectionist, and is driven by a strong sense of tradition and duty. Over the course of the story she recognizes her daughter's uniqueness and fully appreciates Merida for who she is.The first important glimpse of Elinor's change of heart is the brawl in the great hall after Merida has disappeared. When Merida strides back into the hall it is Elinor who puts words in Merida's mouth. Elinor speaks through her surrogate about going against tradition and marrying for love. It is Elinor who makes an eloquent plea for choice and following one's heart. Merida is just her passive interpreter. At the end of the film Elinor is willing to sacrifice her own life in a battle with the ancient cursed bear, who one would assume, was the monster who took off her husband's leg. Or not? Who knows?Even more confusingly this monster turns out to be the legendary brother, it would seem, who destroyed the ancient kingdom so long ago because of his pride and selfishness. How how did he turn into a bear? Was it mother love or something else that breaks his curse?When a legend and curse is set up so carefully it should have a pay-off having to do with Merida or her destiny– if the film is really about Merida.And what does Merida do that is so brave? She scurries around looking for the witch's house after her mother turns into a bear. She stitches up (with big clumsy childish stitches) the tapestry she slashed separating her from her mother. She does a lot of running away and running around. She is ineffective in battling the monstrous cursed bear. And she collapses in tears remembering her mother's loving kindness as the second sunrise threatens to make her mother's bear curse permanent. In other words, she acts like a child– or worse a girl.At the end of the film, Elinor has changed but not Merida. Merida is the same galloping wild child as she was in the beginning. It is a sinking back into carefree childhood rather than striding toward an adulthood based both on duty and and an individualistic sense of self. If you are a young woman, what is the lesson here?Brave offers no alternative vision of how Merida might help unify the clan in some way that is uniquely hers. It provides a very unsatisfying resolution. How has Merida changed or grown? What happens when King Fergus and Queen Elinor are too old to rule? What is Merida's role going forward? What exactly is her destiny?For the full review go to my website ETBscreenwriting.
__label__5 I need help understanding some of the plot elements, because otherwise, this has really been the worst pixar movie I've seen to date...A lot of the more serious info was glossed over or rushed in the movie, so I may not have this all correct. So there were four princes who were given equal power by the king, but one of the princes wanted it all, and this caused the kingdom to crumble. Elinor was using this legend to make Merida become a proper princess and get married. I really fail to see the connection between the story and her current situation. I also didn't really catch what the wayward prince did to be cursed into a mindless bear by the witch. And the witch is suppose to be good? She basically killed the prince and was willing to kill Elinor (turn and leave her as a bear) just to teach Merida a lesson? What lesson is this? The mother-daughter family bond? Because it really doesn't tie into the wayward prince legend at all. The tapestry with the queen being cut off, and the prince and his stone tablet being broken off, are you telling me Elinor is power hungry? No it doesn't make sense to me at all.It was suppose to be about changing your destiny and doing so bravely, but what destiny? No one is really keeping Merida from having fun riding a horse, shooting arrows, and exploring the woods. It doesn't push the whole caged princess theme very strongly. She seems perfectly free to do whatever she wants, and eat whatever she wants. The king and his subjects and allies are all fighting brutes and heavy drinkers, jolly without a care in the world. The only one who even tries to keep order is Elinor. She is perfectly fine and loving as a mother from all the flashbacks, but wants to keep some order and good relations among the various clans. This whole propriety thing isn't really even supported in the backdrop. I didn't even know they were suppose to be royalty in the beginning of the movie. I thought he got kinged for defeating the bear, in the beginning anyway, because they sure weren't living the life of luxury in the beginning. And Elinor was suppose to be married off? And have ladylike qualities and upbringing? Maybe more responsible than the others. And the primitive land and people. All doesn't really support the caged princess thing.Elinor never needed to be changed, nor her destiny. Merida needed to stop acting like a stubborn brat, and her destiny was far from set in stone. She bravely changed it...how? Who is being brave here? And then they throw in a "you should do whatever you want to and be true to yourself" speech out of nowhere. They never did elaborate on why Merida had to be married in the first place, what purpose it would accomplish, and who actually cared, because it seemed no one, especially none of the clansman, really cared.And the will-o-wisp was the soul of the transformed prince, trying to get Merida to kill him and free his soul? Or maybe he wanted someone else to turn into a bear to commiserate with him by leading her to the witch? The prince was selfish so that made some sense that the witch transformed him into a mindless bear, but unlike Beauty and the Beast, he will never be able to transform back and live his former life. The only peace he can get is to be killed off and his misery ended? Still don't know why Elinor was transformed into a bear and what major lessons it was suppose to instill in her, or merida, and how this was suppose to be a bonding experience, or a change destiny lesson, or anything effective as such or make any sense.
__label__5 Good: Great use of real Scottish people doing the voices.Looked nice and authentic.Bad:The plot is just too thin. I can't give it away, but you'll know what I mean when you see it.I didn't laugh as much as I thought I was going too.Yet again, another 3D movie that has been produced WITHOUT increasing the brightness because when you view it with the 3D glasses, it dims the picture. A lot of the movie was shot in dim light, so watching with the glasses you just can't see what is going on or at best cannot see the detail of the sets or characters. Don't they think about this when they produce the final edit? I took my glasses off for the last 10 minutes because I was fed up struggling to see the detail. I could see the movie was properly lit without the glasses on. Going to watch movies in 2D from now on.Disappointing.
__label__5 Disappointed with this entry in the series. Star Trek to me isn't about motorcycles and loud music, it's more about exploring science fiction concepts and themes through great storytelling (which this film has very little of). The "twist" at the end is figured out about a 1/3 of the way in. Lazy storytelling where props are laid for action scenes for no apparent reason (why is there a motorcycle aboard a starship?).On the plus side, the cast is magnificent and the charm they bring to their roles makes this enterprise watchable. It's too bad the script and direction don't give them much to do. Mr. Lin, while a good action director, isn't a good storyteller. While that's good for the Fast & Furious franchise, Star Trek deserves better.
__label__5 Being less "Star Trek"-ish isn't bad per se. What's wrong with this (motion) picture is that it fails in trying the exact opposite.This feels like your "regular blockbuster" within Star Trek (reboot) universe. It's interesting because things keep happening, thus it keeps your attention, the time passes by quickly. But, at the end, you don't feel much, if anything. Nothing really interesting actually happened.It's somewhat unfortunate. It starts of good. There a few funny lines/situations. The story is Star Trek-ish, yet a little different. But, about the time that the rebooted JT Kirk mutters that his "life feels episodic", it starts to feel forced. Everything. The story, the visuals, the "funny". Take "gay Sulu", for example. Sulu's sexual orientation has no bearing on this story what so ever. So, the only reason to show it is to be able to say "we're good with LGBT". Thus, it's forced, plain and simple.All of it screams "we want to make a blockbuster". But, that shouldn't be the point, really. They should be wanting to make a good movie. If it were really good, given the extent of Star Trek fandom, you can bet it would have been a blockbuster.So, what we have gotten is watchable, but, oh-so-forgettable. Let me put it this way: for all it's many flaws, I actually prefer "Into Darkness" to this movie.
__label__5 OK, here are a few reasons why I disliked (note: NOT hated) this film.Chan looks bored and his action scenes simply do not impress.Tucker gets a few decent one-liners but surprisingly, his comic timing is off.Storyline is simultaneously boring and unbelievable, and the ending a massive letdown.Everyone seems to be in simply for the money, and there's clearly ZERO imagination or honesty visible. Patrons have a right to be annoyed.Avoid this film as it is simply a "paycheck" movie.3/10
__label__5 They had all the money, actors and special effects they needed so how did they manage to screw this one up? Obviously they thought exiting moments were more important than developing deeper characters and that's why this story that had great potential stayed so shallow. The dialog was always cheesy and none of the 'hero's' in this film really showed any real emotions nor did they give any of those speeches that give the audience goose bumps. Another thing that really bothered me was that so much was almost going wrong the whole time. Every second of the film had a 'close call' which made the film seem totally unrealistic. Examples are planes taking off just before the runway collapses or driving just fast enough to not get hit by an explosion. This can be very cool if it doesn't happen 100% of the time and I have never seen a movie abusing this way of creating excitement to this extent. So to sum up: If you feel like turning your brain off and watching special effects and big explosions with a very shallow storyline then this movie is for you. But if you feel like watching a movie with a bit of depth then go and see something else.
__label__5 I went to an advance screening of 2012 a few nights ago and I have to admit that this movie was entertaining at best and that's it. The whole movie is almost entirely comprised of special effects. Of course you'll see all of the lead characters survive scenarios that a regular human being would not. Some of the scenes are so ridiculously unbelievable that you want to laugh at the fodder that's being expected of you to believe. Emmerich certainly pushes "suspension of disbelief" to its limit.John Cusack and Woody Harrelson are the only actors that attempt to hold the film together, while Danny Glover and Thandie Newton were an utter and complete let-down considering their previous work history. You won't see any remotely Oscar-worthy performances here. The casting of this film seemed off and poorly executed. You could tell the bulk of the financial budget went to the special effects and not the actors.The thing that I found thoroughly disappointing about 2012 is that it's almost entirely lacking of any interesting backstory or intellectual substance whatsoever. There's very little mention of the Mayan calendar, Mayan history, or any of the prophetic wisdom that has foreseen the supposed end of days. The fear, analysis, curiosity, and everything else you've ever wondered about this new mysterious year that is quickly approaching is almost entirely removed from this film. That would have and could have made this film closer to a 10 if I didn't feel like my brain was utterly wasted on this CGI and special effects bonanza. They try to cram so many explosions, eruptions, earthquakes, and natural disasters into two hours that I might be a little desensitized to the real thing if it ever happens. After awhile nothing felt realistic or interesting about it at all.It's novelty entertainment at best and that's it. You won't wince at how painfully awful this movie is, and you won't walk away knowing anything meaningful about 2012, but hopefully you'll help repay Sony pictures for the exorbitant amount of money that they and Roland Emmerich spent on their special effects budget. Don't say you weren't warned.
__label__5 I loved the first half of the movie with Roland Emmerich seemingly back to form (from his disastrous "10,000 B.C."). But as the movie drags on, even the smallest character gets his "i have to say goodbye to my loved ones"-scene - which becomes quite annoying after you've watched this for the 5th time in a row. then comes a great destruction scene and then we're back in soap-opera territory. don't get me wrong, basically that can be said about most of Emmerich's movies - they are just popcorn cinema - leave your brain at the ticket counter. still, i enjoyed the likes of "Independence Day" or even "The Day After Tomorrow". But the one thing, he can't do properly is "good"-emotional cinema - which works fine in some of his other movies when his pathos-laden, goofy dialogue writing doesn't get in the way of the big explosions - it fit's, makes them funnier to a point. unfortunately this doesn't work for 2012. if somebody could actually cut this movie down to 90minutes running time, i'd even be lining up for a second ticket.
__label__5 Having just come from a preview screening of "A Christmas Carol" I can confirm the worst suspicions of genuine film lovers. And anyone who has an ounce of love for Charles Dickens.The film is spectacular to look at and the kids will no doubt enjoy all the whiz bang action. Unfortunately this is the Disney and Robert Zemeckis' version, not the Charles Dickens' version we know and love. The storyline is the same but .............Of course it will probably make a fair amount of money, but gosh it was unsatisfying.The film has no soul, no beating heart, no emotional lift at the end. I didn't even have a lump in my throat when it was over. What a bitter disappointment. The magic is gone, to be replaced by an f/x laden thrill ride. Tiny Tim (Gary Oldman, I kid you not - he does three characters) has one line of dialogue. Thus the character of Tiny Tim is barely a factor in this version. Tiny Tin, who for me has always been the heart and soul of this wonderful story. Are Disney and Zemeckis crazy?. Or just greedy? Where is their spirit of Christmas? But wow, we get to see Scrooge (Jim Carrey, who plays nine characters) fly to the moon and back in 10 seconds in 3-D. Visually dazzling, but emotionally bland and hollow would describe the film perfectly.It is an understatement to say that the 1951 film starring Alistair Sim is a fifty times more effective - and affecting, experience.Let me just add that while I certainly enjoyed aspects of the performances of Gary Oldman, Colin Firth, Bob Hoskins, Cary Elwes (also in multiple parts) and even Jim Carrey, the actors are not well served by this format of film-making. In fact, while their names will help sell the picture, their wonderful talents are dimmed here. You must see what they do to poor Robin Wright Penn; she's been bland-ed out visually.Really, how could they mess this one up.
__label__5 It took me a long time to finally see this film. Visually it is quite impressive, but as is often the case, the movie falls far short of the better presentations of this story. Scrooge is portrayed in the usual way, but the treatment of his character is almost sadistic. So much license is taken with his plight that it falls into the realm of every juvenile movie made today. I'm really surprised that Ebenezer didn't have a skateboard. The way he is tossed and attacked in this film, totally distracts us from the central issue. That is a redemption of the soul. Scrooge's character is never one we care about. He is tortured and prodded. The spirits are dull and contrived. There is hardly a former love and a true sense of avarice. Bob Cratchitt and Tiny Tim are incredibly boring. The kid isn't of much interest. Finally, there is no emotion in Scrooge. This is animation which should allow incredible creativity. But the film sells its soul and dwindles away to nothing.
__label__5 Robert Zemeckis lost his humanity. Led into temptation by the C.G.I., the SFX and all the awesomeness of modern movie-making technology, he is now devoid of all the emotion, freshness, thrills that made the fame and valor of his previous masterpieces, as "Back to the Future" or the unforgettable "Forrest Gump".The danger was in air already since the tiresome and useless "Beowulf", but now it became plain for all to see."A Christmas Carol" is simply too perfect, in all its spectacular redundancy, to be able to express any feeling at all anymore. It's like a genetically modified tomato injected with steroids - huge and spherical and tasteless, with an eau-de-cologne flavor. It's so permanently over-the-top, that it becomes limp and boring.Well, it's obvious that modern cinema moves on its way towards this key of expression, so the lesson to be gathered by all, out of Zemeckis' artistic passing away, is quite obvious: learn to become MASTERS of the new profession - not its SLAVES!
__label__5 Adapting a book that so many audience members have read and cherish is surely a daunting task, but I believe it is also a great responsibility. Recently, Peter Jackson set the bar pretty high in this regard with the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy. Unfortunately, Adamson's "Narnia" wasn't quite up to snuff.I count myself among those who cherish "The Chronicles of Narnia," having read them as a child and having re-read "The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe" in eager anticipation of the film. In my opinion, this film adaptation not only falls short, but does a disservice to the audience by cheating us of much of the impact and wonder of the original books.Here are the general categories (including some specific examples) where I felt the film didn't deliver:Screen Adaptation - Some important scenes that illustrated character dynamic were cut short making later behavior and motivation seem exaggerated or cliché. Example: The scene where Edmund meets Jadis was rushed and awkward. (It wasn't even demonstrated that the Turkish Delight was enchanted in order to manipulate Edmund - we were left to assume that his allegiance to Jadis was due solely to avarice!) Also, in the book, the mere mention of the name "Aslan" for the first time was an event that had an important impact on the children. In the movie this impact was all but lost, as these subtler points were sacrificed to save screen time for the type of gruesome battle scenes that you would expect from a "fantasy" movie but in this case didn't serve to advance the story. Another pulled punch: in the book, the scene with Father Christmas was a brilliant omen of the turning of the tides but here the scene seemed out of place and just downright weird. (They might as well have run into the Easter Bunny.)A couple of outright inventions served only to distract us from the magic and mystery of the real story: The waterfall scene - who came up with that idea? The cricket ball through the window - not as effective as the original story.Casting - The elder siblings were mediocre, and I can't tell if Tilda Swinton was just awfully directed or totally miscast. (In the book Jadis was a noble and grand enchantress, albeit with dastardly aims; in the movie she was shallow, petty and despicable.) Oh, and Liam Neeson as the voice of Aslan the Lion was not nearly powerful enough--this is one of the most important roles in the film. Was James Earl Jones not available?Direction of Actors' Performances - This ties in with my comments about casting, above. Performances in individual scenes seemed disjointed from overall character motivations and some character interpretations (such as Jadis and Edmund) were shallow and unsympathetic. Where was the charisma that would have made Jadis's character believable, let alone have enabled her to amass an army of supporters? Hair/Make-up - Jadis sports blonde distractingly annoying dreadlocks despite her otherwise un-Irie nature. The professor's hair and beard looked about as realistic as a department store Santa, and the main Centaur's make-up also stood out as distractingly awful.Wardrobe - Jadis has one outfit in particular that looks like it came right off the runway of a bad 80's fashion show. Another includes an atrocious hat shaped like a giant icicle--Mr. Freeze from Batman & Robin would have had hearts in his eyes.Special Effects - Overall special effects were not nearly as cleanly integrated as WETA's work on LOTR, and cohesion was lacking. For example, the cuts between live action and CGI wolves were painful at best. Also, the teeming masses of bad-guys all looked as though they could have been extras in the Orc armies of LOTR. Mr. Tumnus was an example of the fact that Jadis's supporters were comprised of otherwise beneficent creatures that she'd charmed, threatened and bullied into joining her. Here they were unimaginatively portrayed as one-dimensional twisted, evil fiends.Cinematography - Boring; All the visual texture and lighting of a made-for-TV movie. Due to my disappointment in Adamson's interpretation of this work, and in the execution of the movie that resulted, I rate this film a 5 out of 10. It is not completely devoid of entertainment value but fails to uphold the responsibility that a filmmaker shoulders when adapting so well-known and well-loved a story.
__label__5 So after loving DOFP, circumstances (eg: Holiday)caused me to have to wait several weeks after the release date to watch this movie and before showtime I had heard mixed reviews, but with most of them leaning towards a poor one I went in without any expectations so that I may avoid any potential disappointments. Now firstly let me say I wasn't disappointed, I found this film to be a decent enough entry in to the Xmen universe, certainly better than some other notable entries (Origns - I'm talking to you...). There was lots in this film that I liked, mostly as it seemed more loyal to the cartoon I watched back in my youth that I loved so much. There were plenty of characters involved in the film, comic book style action sequences and the always fun quicksilver scene, such a welcome addition to the xmen movies, and something that maybe points out one thing Marvel have done wrong with a character in their films... The Weapon X "cameo" - I enjoyed this but think it would have been so much better had they not spoilt this in the trailer, it fitted well with the story and you knew you were going to Alkali lake so it would've been nice to have had the anticipation of whether you would see Wolverine, but it was done well done and I liked that this was all we saw of him. Now I like the Wolverine character but personally felt that the original trilogy suffered due to an overdose of Wolverine, yes he was the main character of the first films but none of the other characters got developed which I felt made the films suffer, this is why I liked that Cyclops had a much more prominent role in this film and enjoyed that it seemed to focus more on him and Jean Grey and his rise to becoming a leader of the X-men.Now this wasn't the perfect film and there were bad points that I found to it. The pacing of the film was a little strange at times, it was a shame that Havok's death seemed to be almost glossed over "He was closest to the explosion" "Oh, I thought I got everyone" ..... "Oh well, never mind...!" Bit of a shame as we never got to see the "Bad ass" he was made out to be in the previous outings. Speaking of deaths I did have a sneaky feeling there may be another one in the film and almost expected Mystique to die in the final battle, especially with her being built up as a hero all the way through the film, but then wondered if Quicksilver might perish when taking on Apocalypse on by himself - in another fantastic sequence, but this was not the case.Whilst it was good to see a big cast, The horsemen seemed to just be "there" and with the exception of Storm (slightly) were not fleshed out - Angel is seemingly built up as some seasoned warrior and is introduced with a cage fight scene having just beaten the blob and having gone 10 fights undefeated (Which we don't see any of) before he meets nightcrawler where he promptly gets his "ass handed to him". Even in the rematch at the end of the film he still struggles to put up any kind of fight. Psylocke was just sat in a room with Caliban evidently as his bodyguard, and for no real reason just decides to join Apocalypse, though this may be to save Calibans life?? But it would've been nice to have spent a little more time giving them some character - especially in a 2 & 1/2 film.My biggest problem though which I had ever since he was announced was Oscar Issac as Apocalypse. Whilst I have no problem with him as an actor I just never saw him as being that character and wasn't convinced of him at any point through the film. Apocalypse is a hugely overpowered mutant who has a deep booming voice and should be menacing and instil fear in to those he meets, yet Issacs is tiny and had too much of a softly spoken voice in the film and I just found he didn't fit the part at all., he just looked like one of the gang when stood with his horsemen. Now whilst I'm not saying he should've had the part instead, I think someone like the Rock, with his build, would've been more visually suited to the character, but that's just my opinion.Whilst this does almost wrap the whole Xmen story up I do hope there is another one after this, they have after all teased the Phoenix saga again so can see this being the next big thing, though I think the next film will be too soon for this story to resolve as it will need fleshing out more first, but the end credit scene leaves a couple of potential movies, with a potential creation of X-23, or hopefully Mr Sinister as the next big bad. But overall it's a good enough entry and I don't think it's as bad as some people have said, it's certainly not worthy of the 1's and 2's out of 10 that some people have given it??? But again it's the nods to the comics and cartoons which I liked about the films, with the scene at the end with the team in their cartoon costumes in the training room a brilliant way to end the film.
__label__5 Am I the only one who thinks this movie is overrated? I was so excited when I saw the 9.2/10 rating late Friday night and couldn't wait to see it the next morning. I told my daughter we were going to see a very good movie on the way to the theater. My expectation was so high and I had been waiting for those good things coming to me throughout the whole movie, then found out there was nothing, no excitement nor surprise in this movie at all! Right now, I cannot recall a single thing which I think is special in this movie. A very so-so movie with a very typical Hollywood ending. There should be better story tellers out there. There should be a better movie deserves such high rating. Even my 7-year old daughter thought this movie was just OK. Very disappointed!
__label__5 Once again, I shouldn't have trusted that preview, or it might have been that the short before "Up" was so wonderful, or was it that the mostly silent introduction to our main character was nothing short of glorious... somewhere, though, this film lost its ability to touch in the way other Pixar and animated features have done in the past."Up" is supposedly about achieving our dreams, discovering who we really are, learning to adapt to the changes life brings to us, and so many other themes that it is a wonder we even recognize them, as the film changes from an intimate portrayal of two lonely people to a rather hectic adventure that barely rises above average.The animation is, of course, superb, and the vocal work by all the people involved is first-rate. Problems arise when we notice than other than the amazing prologue, most of the good stuff has already been show in the preview. The other sections don't quite muster enough emotional power to make us care. For instance, the vistas aren't impressive, the set action pieces near the end don't carry much wallop, and it's hard to have a movie that lacks. The film just feels like some non-threatening film that is paying tribute to movies that had originality and the right tone. I couldn't help wondering what people like Spielberg and Zemeckis could have done with this movie, and the echoes of "Wall-e" kept haunting me, as I remembered the lyricism of that movie that made us remember what it is like to be human in the middle of all these choking technology. "Up" doesn't quite take you up for the ride, or make you feel "up". There is no cathartic moment, no real payoff, and the best moments are the sentimental moments when pictures of their loving relationship is on the screen.Marketing can do wonders, and this will be a huge moneymaker. Hopefully it will only receive the credit it really deserves, and audiences will be wiser so next, we enjoy something beyond a small, sweet film that couldn't quite give us what we expected.
__label__5 Monsters and Aliens was a poor clichéd animated outing from Dreamworks. I found some of the pop culture and repetition in an attempt to get cheap laughs were embarrassingly bad. In particular the part where the President tries to make peace with the alien invaders by playing the Beverley Hills Cop theme on an electric piano made me cringe. Another scene where the general was showing images of the monsters to the cabinet with the secretary hysterically screaming on a number of occasions, leading to the president screaming also left me cold.The characters were charming, yet I did not feel that the bond between the female lead and the alien characters were all that strong for her to want to stay as the heroine Ginormica - and yes, what an original nickname, eh? Whilst Pixar and Disney are still coming out with great original flicks such as Wall-E and Bolt, Dreamworks are really hitting a downer with unoriginal narratives, and they need to find a new formula to get their franchise going again. Shrek 3 was also unimpressive. Maybe they should get out of their monsters theme and find some new kind of characters to play on.
__label__5 I do have a question, what ever happened to the slow walking lame Egyptian mummies? I mean, as silly as they are, they're still entertaining. Now we have The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor, I loved The Mummy, The Mummy Returns, it was watchable, but this one was just an excuse to make some quick cash. I was actually looking forward to seeing this movie, I got the opportunity to see it today, I was excited, but unfortunately, we now have Chinese mummies that can do anything that will fit into the CGI budget. Another disappointment was the recasting of Evelyn, I know Rachel Weisz turned this script down, but she was seriously needed, Maria Bella, who is a decent actress, actually made Evie a very flat character and not as enjoyable. Then not only that, but we have Brendan and Maria who do look incredibly good for their age, they have a 20 year old son in the movie? This story was a waste of time and money.The Emperor of China wanted to rule the entire world, but when a Chinese witch curses him and his army, he is put to sleep for thousands of years. Rick and Evie are now retired and have lost the spark in their relationship, but when they are asked to go to Shanghai to deliver a small little ball, they bump into their son who has discovered the Emperor. Rick and Evie are forced to wake the mummy by his followers. Now the whole family with Jonathan and the protector who was supposed to keep the emperor from rising, must destroy the Emperor or he will take over the entire world.The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor has some OK moments, I loved the beginning story and the ending battle scene is held pretty strong, it's worth the look for that, but I would say this is more of a rental. It's just a sad disappointment, considering how much better it could have been. The one liners were too cheesy and we have three headed dragons, karate kicking abdominal snow men, why not just go all the way and have leprechauns with machine guns? That's how out of control the CGI effects are. Luke Ford makes Brandon Fraiser look like Marlon Brando with his acting and the love story between him and the protector girl was useless. Like I said, wait for the rental, not the worst movie of this year, but a huge let down for sure.5/10
__label__5 I really like the Mummy series for its epic action, sense of humor and great special effects. I was very excited when I started seeing teasers for this sequel to be shown in July, mostly because it was quite unexpected.This movie has all the required elements of epic action, sense of humor and great special effects. Of course there is still the swashbuckling hero Rick O'Connell played in grand style by Brendan Fraser. He undoubtedly has this action-comedy genre sewn up right in his alley. John Hannah is still around playing his brother-in-law, Jonathan, in his old annoying manner.For the new stuff, the setting shift to China as the titular "Mummy" now refers to an ancient Chinese emperor who desired immortality, played by Jet Li (who really personified his anti-hero role with relish here). The emperor sought the help of a "witch" (played with much bravado by Michelle Yeoh), with whom he gets attracted to. However, the witch fell in love with his main general (played by Russell Wong, whom you'd wonder why he isn't getting more breaks in Hollywood). From hence starts the conflict and the resultant curse on which the movie stands.The requisite martial arts you would expect in a movie set in China are of course in full play. Very well choreographed, especially that thrilling sword fight between Jet Li and Michelle Yeoh. The exciting action sequences inside the booby-trapped lost tomb, the truck and chariot (!) chase in the streets of Shanghai and the final fight sequence with the "Mummy" are all executed very well as in the two previous installments.But then there are the drawbacks that for me pulls this one down to a five star rating. The quality of the spoken Mandarin is at times unintelligible. However, the major beef involves what for me are severely miscast actors.The actor who plays the now college-aged son of the O'Connells, Alex, looks too mature to be the son of Brendan Fraser. I just checked to see that the actor Luke Ford was born in 1981, but he looked older than that, so it was a bit of a stretch to believe that he is Brendan's son. Furthermore, he also does not act like a son, but more like Brendan's younger brother.But the worst and damaging mistake was the decision to cast Maria Bello in the beloved role of Evelyn O'Connell, which is wholly owned by the more beautiful and credible Rachel Weisz. I felt absolutely NO chemistry between Maria and Brendan. Her acting was also quite wretched when compared to Ms. Weisz, who was able to maintain her intellectuality, demureness and gentility on top of her topnotch fighting skills. Ms. Bello fails miserably in this regard to recapture the unique character of Evie we have loved before, in my opinion.
__label__5 Is this movie terrible? Absolutely notIs this movie great? Absolutely not.I always heard from people that they either HATED or LOVED this movie. And for me it was neither.The audience for this film is served with a classic action movie/comic book. "The world is in danger! There must be a solution! Although there are bumps between the characters along the way, eventually, we'll solve the problem"The interesting twist is *supposed* to be that instead of classic superheroes, we have bad guys. To that I say "so what?". The movie didn't really establish why I should care about much of what was going on on screen—it was all just classic popcorn movie action and sequences that were occasionally broken up by half-attempts at character development.
__label__5 This movie tries to be so much but ends up being a real mess.Where do I begin? Character introduction runs for almost 40 minutes and I still don't end up giving a damn about anyone.Jokes are often very misplaced and feels extremely forced. Many scenes feels like they were made solely for sake of the trailer and also the trailer resembles nothing of what the actual movie is like.CGI is so off that I divide the movie into 2 teams, CGI-team and real team, and I keep ending up thinking how the ***k is human team going to beat world consuming superman-like characters.However I do like the look of the Villains, especially Enchantress.Maybe this film is the best thing for DC Universe superfans, but for the casual viewer it's very hard to get a grip of this movie, at least for me it was.
__label__5 Steve Carell reprises his role as Evan Baxter in this sequel to Bruce Almighty.Evan Almighty jumps right into the mix of things with little build up. Right off the bat we find out that news anchor Evan Baxter has segued his career into one of political aspirations. Soon after being elected to the United States Congress under a slogan painting him as a politician out to change the world, God (Morgan Freeman) commissions Baxter to build an ark in the midst of one of the worst droughts in the history of the area.In a predictable move the area townspeople antagonize Baxter as he begins the construction of the ark. Baxter's reputation is further soiled by the fact that his political career is being looked as a joke when he starts wearing sack cloth on a regular basis, and animals of all kinds are following him around in pairs. Baxter's boss Congressman Long, who once supported him quickly, becomes the antagonist as the people begin to turn against Baxter.Evan Almighty is predictable on every turn, and has enough humor to satisfy. The animals do their part to provide a fair share of fecal humor. Morgan Freeman offers up plenty of wisdom in the role of God. Steve Carell does an exceptionally adequate job of delivering very humorous dialogue, which in his style is sure to be adlibbed in great part. The sheer amounts of animals in this film are overwhelming and a treat to behold. Overall the storyline and humor feel very cliché. Evan Almighty was a mild success, but just does not offer anything special apart from a few good laughs. Parents with children will get their money's worth out of this, but for everyone else it is a worthwhile rental.
__label__5 This was, simply put, a bad movie. As a big fan of Steve Carell, I had high hopes, at least for his performance. Unfortunately, he could do nothing to save it. There were even times when I found him to be incredibly annoying. The pace is too fast, to the point where watching the beginning of the film is like seeing a montage of events that happened prior. There is little to no character development, especially for Evan's family. While the film is visually stunning, an overinflated budget cannot always save a film from a poor script, poor acting, and poor direction. Don't waste your time unless you're with children.5/10
__label__5 I just don't get it. Stephen Sommers "bounces back" from the colossal disaster Van Helsing, only to give us something worse. The fact that this piece of s**t took $170 million to make is more talked about than the movie itself, and for good reason. When you spend that much money on a film it usually at least looks like money well spent, despite Sommers (look what the same studio Paramount did with $30 million Cloverfield). Guess what, writing doesn't cost that much money, and clearly there was no real effort in that department. Why, when you can spend some of that money on insane practical stunts and create memorable sequences like some other directors do, would you spend it on creating bases under polar ice caps and the sands of Egypt, which look like cartoon sequences edited into live - action? The CGI was BAD, very bad. The action was (as expected) non stop, stereotype and irritating. The stunts were non – existent, as everything was CG. The women kick more arse than everyone else. The Paris sequence was pretty much everything you see in the trailers and clips, disappointing when you see the whole thing instead of quick cuts. It was always obvious that this film would hide a lack of substance with style, but quite frankly it was not very stylish. Snake Eyes is sadly immensely under used, Channing Tatum is the worst actor I've seen since Hayden Christensen, pathetic musical score, pathetic dialogue and attempts at humor even from the usually – funny Marlon Wayans, completely non – memorable performances from everyone else, Dennis Quaid might as well have not been in the movie, for everyone who's watched the trailers and exclusive clips, that's pretty much all there is in the movie. It is, at best, pathetic (even by Stephen Sommers summer blockbuster standards). Hard to think Stuart Beattie could write a screenplay this bad, you'll see what I'm talking about if you're unfortunate enough to watch the characters' so – called "back stories" and the now requisite "leading onto a sequel" ending. Cheesy, cheap - looking (which I still cannot comprehend), not cool, worse than sister concern Revenge of The Fallen, and I have a horrible feeling Stephen Sommers may have destroyed a potentially mind – blowing franchise even before it kicks off. Since every other franchise seems to be doing it these days, who knows, maybe a "reboot" with another director? Unheard of for a second film, I know, but this is how bad it is and I do not want to see it die before it's born. Saving grace (if there is such a thing for this film):Ray Park as Snake Eyes (his costume more than anything, since they wasted his presence and potential) Brendan Fraser's second – long cameo, which I personally enjoyed more than the whole movie, the concepts in the movie, which sadly were taken to a Sommers – ish level in terms of execution & Sienna Miller & Rachel Nichols (not their pathetic ten - second fight sequence)
__label__5 I was generally disappointed with this movie, and I did give it a fair chance.Rather than be GI Joe, the team should instead be called the Minori-team. They aren't real American heroes because most of them aren't American, hell, their base isn't even in America, it's in Egypt with the stereotypical camel guy stalking around it's entrance. The whole franchise had been based off of, "GI Joe, the Real American Heroes".This movie at times actually seemed more like a spoof of the old TV show than it was an action movie relaunch of the franchise. It reminds me of the P.O.S. Trek Trek 'relaunch' they did a bit ago. Why do they even bother? They actually did a cool and creative thing with Cobra Commander, though. He turns out to be who everyone thinks is Dr. Mindbender, but is in reality someone else. He's been horribly disfigured by a bunker explosion he and the not-so-good Dr. were in together, but they never do say what happened to the real Mindbender. He's on a respirator device like Darth Vader and later reveals he's wearing a wig. Sadly they then screw this up at the end of the movie by making him put on a ridiculous looking mask that makes him sound like a white guy trying to be James Earl Jones doing Darth Vader on a bad day.Yeah, apparently the spoof for this movie was already made by Matt Stone and Trey Parker, it's called 'Team America'. You're better off watching that as it was much more entertaining with far better writing. Kim Jong Il's performance in that movie was absolutely breathtaking. As for GI Joe, the Rea... er... GI Joe, the International Minoriteam, wait until it comes on TV, not even worth renting IMO.
__label__5 Overall: This movie is the most overrated movie of 2016 for me. It had some highs but many more lows for me. I don't think it deserves the praise it receives.Good: 1. I won't deny that the CGI in this movie is some of the greatest I've ever seen and 100% deserves the Oscar. It is practically flawless and would receive an 11/10 if I judged movies solely on that. Alas, I do not.2. The voice actors did great jobs even if I think there were some bad calls of judgement for who voiced who.3. I respect Neel Sethi for doing what he did under the conditions he was in. Despite this, I couldn't buy his acting but he does deserve respect for it.4. Bill Murray and Christopher Walken and Ben Kingsley were perfectly casted.Bad:1. As stated before, I couldn't buy the kids acting.2. I believe that both Idris Elba and Scarlett Johanson, while giving a reasonable performance, were not fit for the role they were in and much prefer the original cast for both them roles. 3. The story was quite weak for me. I don't care if it's identical to the book, I really didn't like the way it was presented and written.4. The songs in the movie were stupid. Nostalgic? Yes! Brilliant for animated film? 100%! Fit for realistic looking animals? No. It doesn't look or feel right to see a jolly bear or a huge monkey sing.5. The film is much darker and less happy than the original. I'm all up for a gritter, more mature reboot but this was so devoid of life and joy that the slight attempts at humour just fell flat and felt wrong. I much prefer the happier tone of the original Jungle Book.6. There are quite a few annoyances, such as how they clear up the fire, that I thought were annoying and lazy.5/10
__label__5 This was certainly an amazing looking film, and knowing it was all computer generated is almost worrisome--computers are capable of so much now, practical effects are becoming endangered. The story was very familiar to me going in. It was one of the most beloved films of my childhood, and the original Disney film still looks amazing today. I don't know why, but nothing about this version interested me. Some of the differences are easy to pick out--there is no comparison between the original Baloo and the Bill Murray performance for me, as I much prefer the original. Most of the rest of the movie, I just didn't care about. King Louie, Shere Khan, even Mowgli--they just feel empty and uninspired. I didn't dislike it, I just didn't feel that I would ever want to watch it again.
__label__5 First of all, if you expect to see lots of action in this movie - you will be disappointed! Basically, all the action you will see in this movie is what you saw in trailer. I know people have different tastes. I prefer action over drama and comedy, some people prefer different. So just so you know, this is written from action lovers point of view. First Iron Man had lots of action and was pumped with adrenaline, that is the biggest reason I liked it. This part just doesn't cut it for me. Here are few things I disliked a lot about this movie: there are a lot of random things in this movie, an example: while there is formula race about to begin, Tony decides to jump in one and race. I don't know if i missed some important part in this movie but I was like "What the hell??? That makes no sense how the hell did they let him???" or Tonies birthday party, man that was some random stuff right there. there is this agent played by Scarlett Johansson. To describe her shortly: she is James Bond 2. She can do anything: beat 20 guards? you bet, hack system made by a guy who hacked into important military system in 10sec? no problem. Just an examples, you will see through movie, don't want to spoil it for you. I expected 20-30min intro and then some epic action with great special effects, but I had to wait an hour and a half for that and it wasn't even epic! OK, movie is coming to an end, time for epic battle! Just kidding, fight is over before you say "cookie" stupidity of some scenes concerning highly sophisticated technology and system (also jail) security, an example: guy breaks through pentagon-like security system in 10sec, there are more things I'd like to add but I don't want to spoil it much for you as I mentioned. this movie is... boring. Talking, talking, talking, more talking, the worst part is - this talking isn't even interesting! After 30min of talking all I heard was bla, bla, bla... If at least it was something worth listening to, but only parts worth listening to were where Tony makes a good joke. Now, why did I give it a "high" 5/10 if it was disappointing (overall)? 1. Great special effects 2. This movie made me laugh A LOT3.Scarlett Johansson looks better then Megan Fox in Transformers.This movie should be tagged as (in this order) Comedy, Drama, Thriller, Sci-Fi and Action as last if you ask me. I don't think I wasted 2h on watching this, but I expected more, much more...
__label__5 The hype for Iron Man 2 to be great was pretty big, by me anyway. But i was let down considerably. Sequels are usually the ones that are much harder to get right and pull of, and Iron Man 2 nearly falls flat. The last thirty minutes are diabolically bad compared to the rest of the film, which, whilst it lasted, was pretty damn good. Things that could have certainly been improved upon were; Mickey Rourke as Whiplash, who i didn't think had enough screen time, and could have been fleshed out slightly better. The introduction of War Machine fighting alongside his ally Iron Man, was completely inappropriate as it made the climactic fight sequence corny and stupid. His fight with Iron Man at Starks home was also un called for, as if the director was adding the sequence just for the sake for a longer running time. Also, Starks witty personality died out pretty quickly, so we are left annoyed and pleading him to stop by the credits.
__label__5 Do you remember how you felt right after having watched 'The Empire Strikes Back'? 'The Return of the Jedi'? 'The Matrix'? Or the first Iron Man movie?If you are like me, I would guess pretty darn excited -- 'Can't wait to see what happens next'! Now try to remember how you felt after watching 'The Phantom Menace' and 'The Matrix Reloaded' -- Well, after watching two of the biggest travesties in the world of sequels... I felt completely frustrated, angry and cheated! I won't say I feel the same resentment after having watched Iron Man 2 but it comes pretty darn close.Iron Man 1? A fantastic movie! Iron Man 2? I want my money back! And my travel expenses! What is wrong with Iron Man 2? Do you have a couple of hours?Maybe...no script? Really, are these guys serious? They make a movie costing around $150 million dollars and the script SUCKS BIG TIME.Plot holes anyone? There is NO motivation: you have no idea why you should care about the characters, since the characters themselves don't have a clue what they are supposed to do or feel and why in this story. I'm not saying the actors are bad, they are doing all they can, but they are given a crappy script to work with.No sense of suspense or danger: despite one hundred of explosions and a couple of thousand stray bullets in crowded areas, NOT ONE PERSON gets killed or wounded in the whole movie! The closest you get to 'wounded' are a couple of bruises. How am I supposed to care for someone when I KNOW he won't get hurt? This is a MAJOR difference from the first Iron Man movie, where the threat was real.Somebody desperately tried to make Iron Man 2 into a movie for all ages -- well, it worked, in the worst possible way.This is also why all of the action scenes are boring, since all you see is CGI animated cartoon robots bashing into each other -- sounds a lot like Transformers you say? That's right, but with EVEN LESS human emotion, since no one gets hurt.It was pretty difficult to mess this up, but they somehow managed to do it.I've read all the rave reviews -- "action packed!", "entertaining!" "terrific!" Are we talking about the same movie here? Seriously guys, either you have a very low standard or you have never watched a movie that truly deserves those rave reviews, like: The Matrix and the original Star Wars trilogy. And no, I'm not comparing Iron Man 2 only to 'classic movies'. Even newer movies like Star Trek or Kick-Ass or even Iron Man 1 were ten times better! Kick-Ass was made for $30 million, instead of $150 like Iron Man 2 and it completely kicks Iron Man 2's ass in every department.I want to erase Iron Man 2 from my memory but I'm afraid it will be very difficult -- still having nightmares about Jar Jar Bings -- Thank you Iron Man 2 screenwriters, for ruining the Iron Man 1 experience for me. I wish I could sue you.Why I still give it 5 stars? Because the actors tried. And because I smiled a few times. That's it. A DVD throwaway movie at most, it really wasn't worth my money.
__label__5 Plot: Warrior princess Snow White takes on the wicked queen with a little help from people she barely knows. Drive-in Rating: Yield right of way. Just to get it out of the way, I don't understand the appeal of Kristen Stewart as an actress. She always has the look of a stuck up brat to me. There, done with the casting critique.The movie was visually stunning and Charlize Theron made for a truly wicked-good Queen. Chris Hemsworth was compelling (in a vacuum) and the dwarfs (casting controversy aside) were engaging. I love that the writers know their fairy tales enough to remember what properly lives under a bridge!...but I didn't find myself rooting for the entitled heroine or her comrades. The story idea was good enough but the writers tried to pack so many concepts into 127 minutes that they forgot a little character and conflict development. Even the most compelling scenes, the final kiss for example, left much to be desired (I'm not spoiling anything by telling you there's a kiss, it's a well-known plot point in the fairy tale). In addition, there were some unacceptable leaps in logic (for example, what compelled the Queen's brother to tell the Huntsman the truth about his wife?).And finally, is there an award for the least compelling title of the year? "Fairest Blood" immediately comes to mind as a reasonable alternative.If you pay to see this in the theater, make sure it's because you want to see the visuals on the big screen.
__label__5 This is the second Snow White adaptation released this year except this one is designed as an action, adventure. Both are not quite outstanding but they gave some interesting twists to the story. Unfortunately, there is something gold about this but it cares too much to the visuals than anything else. There are also scenes that are taken from other fantasy, epic movies. It's good looking, but good looking is not always enough.The twist is pretty interesting. The Evil Queen's tragic past, more significance to The Huntsman, turning Snow White into a gritty protagonist. Though the dwarfs are the same in Tarsem Singh's version. These elements could have made this a memorable and fresh adaptation, but they just threw these things to the film lazily. The plotting is mediocre which made the second act a bit boring. The action is nothing but looking good. It looks fascinating but you'll rarely see a real fight.You already know what Kristen Stewart and Chris Hemsworth will do but the audiences are more interested to Charlize Theron's performance. She sort of hammed it up when in rage but she does it pretty well in the rest. Another attraction to this is the visuals. Like I said, it's too pretty. It's never wrong for the visuals to be pretty especially to a film called Snow White. It's too pretty, they already careless about the plot. Decided to choose the generic way. Heroes meeting new friends, settle down, fight, settle down. Just waiting for the climax to come without any much development.I'm starting to think when I first saw it, it's like Ridley Scott's Robin Hood. It's an old tale with a charismatic protagonist turned into a gritty one, but this one is a bit different. It refuses to be gritty and wants to be pretty and generic. The real action is few, the effect of drama is limited. The visuals can be spellbinding but anything else is just empty. There is a good story in the film but it's told in a generic way with a generic plot and filled with stuff that is borrowed from other films. One might enjoy it by its looks but if you care for more than that then it will be unsatisfying. Snow White and the Huntsman can be part of those clichéd modern fantasy movies like Clash of the Titans, Conan The Barbarian, and Immortals. But at least this film is the best of its kind. It's not bad nor good. It's just a waste of potential of a new good film.
__label__5 The Good: 1. Angelina- she was great. 2. Elle fanning was a very cute Aurora. 3. Sam Riley was great as Diaval. 4. Brenton Thwaites as the young Prince Philip. SORRY FEMINISTS, BUT ROMANTIC LOVE IS THERE AND THE AURORA/PHILIP RELATIONSHIP IS TREATED LIKE TWO HIGH SCHOOL KIDS ASKING OUT THE PERSON THEY HAVE A CRUSH ON FOR THE FIRST TIME! The BAD: Oh my goodness, the people's motivation for trying to kill Maleficent and raid the Moor land is not convincing. Why was treasure so important to them that they did not care for anything else? Why did Stefan value being king over Maleficent? He has to be the worst Disney villain ever! Sometimes, you are made to think that he wasn't an all out evil bad guy, but the script writers seem to ignore that. Another thing. I think this movie would have been better if Maleficent had been a dark sort of character at the beginning rather than a sweet little girl. Someone who was redeemable but still had the potential to be the "mistress of ALL EVIL!!!!!" we all knew from the first film. Can Once Upon a Time cast Angelina as Maleficent and do a better job at writing her backstory???? Please, it was bad writing until the christening scene that hurt the film. After that, the movie got good.P.S. Where was King Hubert?????
__label__5 I had been really looking forward to Dawn but it was a wasted opportunity in my opinion.I liked how in the original that you felt for Caesar and the apes and their plight was a simple one in just wanting to get to the forest. Okay an origin story always offers more meat but it had me a lot more involved than Dawn which was ultimately a leadership struggle film.I felt this film was weaker because it descended into the rather clichéd dad trying to connect with his son, 2nd in command wants to take over, they have a big bust up at the end. If the main protagonists were humans and not superbly rendered apes, I think some more might think the story a little predictable, almost like the Lion King.It's like how I thought the first was clever for showing the monkey strengths and ingenuity in outsmarting the humans. However in this film the monkeys wouldn't actually have been any good at aiming the guns or reloading. So although cool seeing them fire guns, the humans would still have had a tactical advantage.I'm not saying this to be a spoil sport for the action scenes but it was lazy film making that the makers didn't then think of a clever way to use the monkey strengths to get round this tactical weakness.Fox bundled the original director out of the way for daring to want to make something of equal calibre and switched in Reeves to create an inferior sequel that hit all of the generic blockbuster marks but had no real heart. Maybe this is proof that recreating the 'lightening in a bottle' of Rise does require a little more time and effort than simply throwing money at special effects.For me it was one step forward in the technology and CGI but two steps back in the story telling. In Rise, the effects aided the story. In Dawn, they were the story.
__label__5 I couldn't hide my eagerness to go to cinema on the first day, because the "first Ape" is soooo good. But after 15 mins of watching, I can predict the whole story, and keep hoping my prediction would be wrong. NO! The story is old, ridiculous and easy going.The Dawn might receive my better review if it was released 10-15 years ago. But it's 2014, please, except CGI, the rest is easy to know before you watch, overwhelmed with non-sense details and very stupid.Apes teach each other human's language but never use it? - Apes live next to human around 10 miles but no one knows? Even the whole world has been trying to find them for years? - The factory is workable after so many years with just a little effort of 4 guys in several hours? Come on, I live in the country where we depend on such power source, to run such kind of factory, we need a big team of engineers, workers from many departments working together on specific conditions. - We just need a stupid man and stupid apes' leader ever to start the war so easily. - ipad, cameras and many electronic devices are working well after many years without power, wow. - Human are lazy,aggressive and selfish. I think when those people living in such kind of condition (no food, no electronics...), they should kill each other before apes come. ... I don't want to list more and more non-sense and illogical details but how the writer can ignore so many basic thing like that? Huge disappointed about the "second ape". Finally, the ape leader who didn't want the war, now stays in the city to wait an army coming to kill them all. OMG...Can't be "better" ending.
__label__5 I enjoyed the previous film and after seeing the high review scored shelled out the exorbitant cost to go to the cinema. None of the characters inspire any real interest. The story is boring and predictable. With stereotype bad people/bad apes versus a few good men/apes. I always like a good, post apocalyptic film, unfortunately this was not it! Very disappointed, it's not desperately awful just very mediocre. I often regret the exorbitant cost of going to the cinema and certainly did this time. Wish I had waited till it came out on TV. My advice is don't waste your money wait till it comes out on TV or streaming service.
__label__5 It was in the pre-production for over a decade, before reshuffle and recasting happened with the existing one. It was supposed to be an Indo-Aussie joint production, but later the Belgium production company joined the project. After the several hurdles it managed to get completed. It was an Anglo-Indian historical romance-drama, during the British raj in India about betrayal, coup, revenge and a journey movie. Also simultaneously set in the modern world focusing an archaeological couple who discovers a lost ancient Indian jewel in a shipwreck. From there the story gets a perfect beginning, later moves back to India.I don't understand what's with the Chinese music where the actual story take place in the 18th century India. It was so good and blends well, but that does define India or Indian culture while narrating its story. If you are not familiar with both Chinese and Indian musics, then it's not an issue at all. But that does not it, the names are Hindu and Indian soldiers with the Persian costumes, swords and other gadgets.How the name 'Dragon's Throat' came to Indian geographical area and surname for the Indian characters in a wrong princely state. Like that, many stuffs make no sense, especially if you are from that part of the Earth. I think the research was very poor for making this movie. They should have hired an Indian musician and costume designer with an historian."Love has many faces, and one of them is jealousy."The quality was top notch, the cast and their performances were excellent. But I could not stand for Bipasha Basu's facial expressions. She was always been in a sad face look, so depressing. That is the way her character was developed, so nothing wrong in her display. It was her international debut flick as well, and the launch was so disappointing. Because the story was very weak, maybe very silly. I have never seen the narration set in the ancient India other than in the Indian films. Quite amazing locations, and convinced with the visuals that how the 1700s' subcontinent would have looked like.The major problem with this flick is that people can't get ending. How the time barrier was broken to pass through another timeline was never explained. The Hindu priest/saint/sadhu who blabbers about the space and time was a ridiculous than intellectual briefing. So this film owes lots of explanation to the viewers than entertaining them. I want to favour it, but I also want to be honest. The film was not like I was hoping for, very excited for the merge of historical subject with sci-fi, but did not stand tall. Thankfully, either it was not a bad movie of the year, I've seen even worse that I felt not to review. I won't recommend it, but there's a slim chance that you might like it, so choose it carefully.5/10
__label__5 I gave The Lovers a FIVE because I found it interesting if for nothing else but a look at the workings of the East India Company. Also the location filming was lovely.The story deals with a golden double-ring set called The Lovers and two time periods, the near future and 18th Century India. I guess it also deals with the eternal nature of true love even though we never see how such love grows...rather shallow here. The premise of one love through time is not executed well.It jumps back and forth in time but mainly is rooted in India where Josh Hartnett is a Scots officer in the British Army who keeps slipping in and out of his accent.The film tries to implant a mystical air to the past and future characters who somehow will be linked through time, Cloud Atlas style. For me the weak point was Hartnett's character, a seasoned and intelligent officer, hypnotically walking off into the night alone right into enemy territory. That was the absurd part. Also, we never learn how and why the rings were found at the bottom of the ocean. But I can't say film wasn't entertaining. It was...yet not very fulfilling.
__label__5 When I saw the cover and description on Netflix I thought this was a movie about a man who travels through time and is kind of two timing by having a lady in each time he travels between. A little bit into the movie, after the main character ended up in a coma I realized he wasn't traveling in time but may have been dreaming the past (uncertain, the connection between the two times is never fully established). Is it a past life? The rings are supposed to reunite lovers but don't quite seem to live up to the challenge. Most of the movie is immersed in the past time line, and though there is a lot of cutting back and forth near the end of the film, the future hardly gets any screen time and the only connections between the past and the present are the ring(s) and the main character (or his soul? assuming he doesn't just magically look just like the other guy). I kept watching it waiting for the connection to click and it just doesn't get there. A lot of people commented in their reviews about not finding out who D.E. was, but I figured it was pretty obvious that it was Dolly Egerton (and her shiny metal purse), but there is no explanation as to how she ended up with the ring(s) (and it looks like she never made it to America). I finished the film kind of wondering what happened at the end. Did the ring magically restore the past version of his soul or pull him back to himself or what? How did Tulaja get it there? Why didn't it reunite her with him? It seems like he didn't need to be in the past for it to work or for Tulaja to be there. The movie was interesting, but the end was all jumbled up an nonsensical. Also I was a little disappointed in Tulaja's warrior skills. She started off the movie strong, but then she got drugged. And she spends a lot of time away from her queen while traveling. And she was ambushed in the swamp and screams and flees and gets stabbed. And they tossed her stuff while she was escaping and she didn't notice. And they stole her ring while she was sleeping. And she didn't catch them in time. She went from prancing down the face of a building and trying to fight with an arrow in her shoulder to crashing into a bush during her stealthy sneak attack (assuming stealth must have been the reason she ditched the horse and followed them on foot). She seemed much more capable at the beginning.
__label__5 Ethnocentrism occurs when one culture appropriates something from another culture and then attempts to enhance it. The latest version of the legendary Genroku Akō incident, the tragic 18th century Japanese account of samurai warriors avenging their fallen leader, displays all the vestiges of ethnocentrism. Mind you, the Japanese produced six previous cinematic adaptations about their historic milestone before Hollywood tampered with it. For the record, those movies were "The 47 Ronin" (1941), "Chûshingura" (1958), "Chushingura" (1962), "The Fall of Ako Castle" (1978), "47 Ronin" (1994) and "The Last Chushingura (2010). Presumably, Hollywood must have felt that this constituted an ideal opportunity to produce its own spin on this venerable story. Not surprisingly, Universal Studios has taken considerable liberties with the material. Not only has the studio embroidered this renowned tale of honor with outlandish supernatural elements, specifically demons and witchcraft, but it also has added a half-breed European supporting character to the yarn. Presumably, Universal must have felt that attracting an American audience to a $200-million plus film primarily about the Japanese would only recoup its costs if a major American actor got mixed up in it. Keanu Reeves of "The Matrix" trilogy appears as the improbable white guy who sets the catastrophic events of the Akō vendetta into motion as well as dictates how the Japanese can resolve their dreadful predicament. Freshman director Carl Rinsch and "Wanted" scenarist Chris Morgan with "Snow White and the Huntsman" scribe Hossein Amini have fashioned a conventional chronicle of samurai versus samurai, with a grim finale that precludes any thought of a sequel. If you know nothing about the outrageous revisions that the filmmakers have imposed on the most celebrated instance of the samurai code of honor, you will probably enjoy this scenic saga about sword and sorcery a lot more. Imagine what any important event in American history would emerge as if a Japanese individual interfered with it and you'll have a good idea about "47 Ronin." "47 Ronin" takes place in feudal Japan in the 1700s. Lord Asano (Min Tanaka of "Black Dawn") of the Ako province adopts a wandering teenager, Kai (Keanu Reeves), who is the son of a British sailor and a Japanese peasant. The boy's mother abandoned him, and demons raised him. Eventually Kai ran away from them and Lord Asano took him in as one of his own. Kai grew up with Asano's daughter, Mika (Kô Shibasaki of "One Missed Call"), and the two become romantically attracted to each other. Meanwhile, since Kai is a half-breed, he cannot serve Lord Asano as a samurai. Instead, he functions as the equivalent of a scout. The first major scene shows him slaying a massive beast that resembles an enormous buffalo with tree branches for antlers. Naturally, another samurai warrior, Yasuno (Masayoshi Haneda of "Emperor"), claims credit for the kill, but Asano's number one samurai, Ôishi (Hiroyuki Sanada of "The Wolverine"), knows the truth. Later, Lord Asano welcomes his supreme leader, Shogun Tsunayoshi (Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa of "Mortal Combat"), to his palatial estate along with his chief rival, Lord Kira (Tadanobu Asano of "Thor: The Dark World"), from the nearby Nagato province. The villainous Kira conspires with the aid of a demonic, shape-shifting witch, (Rinko Kikuchi of "Pacific Rim"), to drug Asano into attacking him. The witch uses a bulbous spider to deliver a drug across Asano's lips while he is asleep so that he awakens and imagines that Kira is raping his daughter. Appalled by his own behavior, Asano follows the dictates of the Shogun in committing ritual suicide. Ôishi blames himself for letting these events transpire, especially after Kai warned him about the witch. Everybody but Asano and his daughter treats Kai with utter contempt. After Asano slashes his belly open with a knife, Ôishi completes the ordeal by decapitating his master. The heartless Shogun banishes all Asano's samurai who are now designated as ronin. At the same time, Kira sells Kai into slavery where Kai becomes a highly prized combatant in arena showdowns. The Shogun commands Mika to marry Kira after mourning the death of her father for a year. Kira has Ôishi thrown into a dungeon where he spends the next year. Eventually, after he is released, the vengeance driven Ôishi assembles the remaining samurai and persuades Kai to join them as they set out to deal with the murderous Kira.Compared with other samurai sages, "47 Ronin" is fairly routine stuff. The battle sequences lack grandeur, and the sword play is pretty dull. The massive ritual suicide at the end isn't exactly what American audiences will enjoy. Imagine "Star Wars" ending with everybody eviscerating themselves at fade-out and you have a good idea what to expect. This big-budgeted spectacle also suffers from second-rate special effects. Most of the sprawling mountain backdrops are clearly computer-generated, while the swirling witch's dragon looks like something out of a Chinatown carnival. Presumably, Rinsch and his writers decided to rely on sorcery because nobody knows for certain why Asano attacked his guest in real-life. The way that Asano is poisoned is reminiscent of how the Japanese girl died at the hands of Ninjas in the James Bond movie "You Only Live Twice." In "You Only Live Twice," a ninja hid in the rafters, dangled a thread above the heroine's mouth, and dribbled poison down it. The witch in "47 Ronin" behaves less spectacularly than the witch in "Snow White and the Huntsman" that co-scripter Hossein Amini penned. The art direction, production design, and cinematography make "47 Ronin" look more impressive than its ersatz plot. Interestingly enough, this film didn't impress Japanese audiences, and Universal has already written it off as a financial disaster. Ultimately, "47 Ronin" qualifies as a tolerable movie with guts but little gusto.
__label__5 So another superhero movie. I was hoping it might be at least as good as the first if not better but alas this was really weak (just like Thor II). Some one needs to let movie directors know that action sequences (lots of sequences) do not make up for a really weak plot and exceptionally bad dialog. I agree with a lot of others that they should have developed Cap's story more. His time with his old girl was short and amounted to nothing but I guess they didn't know how not to make it too sad. You know that you're in trouble when the supporting characters are more interesting than your hero and all of your villains. Samuel L again rocks Nick Fury and we all know that Black Widow desires a movie of her own. I could have cared less about the Winter Soldier and poor Robert Redford was really out of place. Everyone should be glad that Shield folded because they really need to start over with some better guys. I hope the next one is a while cause I'm not looking forward to anymore action sequences.
__label__5 Shrek Forever After is a great movie to take your kids to go see. It has the dry humor, the silly moments, and of course every fairytale melted into one. It is not as entertaining for the adults as it was during the first two Shrek movies. There was nothing original about the humor as if we had already heard all the jokes before, and the repetitive themes were a little too much.The effects were spectacular though, and would be even better to see in 3-D, as I did not. I recommend this to families-- and families only. If you are a teenager going with a bunch of friends, you probably won't like it as much, same to young adults. I give it a 5/10 due to lacking a passionate script.
__label__5 I'm a huge fan of Chris Van Allsburg, and especially his book, "Polar Express." I love Tom Hanks.I really wanted to like this movie ...Reviewers said that the motion capture technique resulted in freakishly animatronic looking characters. At first that aspect of the film did bug me, but I did get used to it.But ... I really didn't like this movie. It was too dark, and it wasn't dark because it had a few scary moments; there's more to it than that.First, what's good. "Polar Express" contains some stunningly lovely and/or remarkable scenes. The words on a page are seen from below the page, as if the page were transparent; wolves and eagles follow a slip of paper as it is blown about by the wind; Frank Sinatra and Bing Crosby Christmas hits play in a North Pole toy factory.All very worth seeing, worth, perhaps, the price of admission for hardcore film fans.But the movie was simply too dark and too PC for me. And it reaches too far.The PC aspect of the movie is an insertion that doesn't exist in the book. The main character is provided with a companion, an African American girl.The animatronic look of the motion capture character is unpleasantly emphasized by the animatronic characterization of this girl. The script bends over backward to make her purely good, cool, and admirable, with no negative qualities, and that effort is obvious and alienating.American audiences are grown up enough that we can accept a flawed -- i.e., human -- African American character. We don't really need a cartoon version of the character Sidney Poitier played in "Guess Who's Coming to Dinner." There is a Poor White Boy character added, as well. Whoever wrote this character has no idea what it is to be poor, and treats this character with zero respect, and a great deal of condescension. The "lesson" this poor boy is meant to learn at the end will have self respecting poor people gagging.Finally, the movie was just too dark, with none of the redemption richer movies have been able to offer. There are scenes of perilous efforts to walk atop a moving train during a snow storm, and scenes of vulnerable children trying to cross a dangerous bridge."Wizard of Oz" and other classics contain similarly scary scenes, but those films also offer deep and moving scenes of genuine empowerment and redemption. I missed such redemptive, powerful scenes in "Polar Express." This film will have its audience for whom it works perfectly. It does offer scenes as stark and striking as anything from German Expressionism.What I missed were the warmth, the depth, the heart of the best of "Wizard of Oz" or "The Little Princess" ... or the Chris Van Allsburg book, "The Polar Express."
__label__5 The movie has excellent computer animation, but it is all kind of cold. I found problems with the story. I haven't read the book, so I don't know how faithful the movie is to it, but expect that since the author co-produced the movie, it is faithful to his book. It's a secular take on Christmas aimed at kids, so it wants us to believe that the true meaning of Christmas is believing in Santa Claus, and that means giving and getting. But the kids in the movie mainly want to get. Presents. Even the short bit from the black girl giving friendship is kind of lost, and that also, while a very good thing, is not the true meaning of Christmas. That was conveyed a lot better in another secular take on Christmas, the 1938 Reginald Owen version of Charles Dickens's "A Christmas Carol." Sure a 3-year-old kid would love POLAR EXPRESS. It makes him believe Christmas is Santa Claus and getting presents. This movie does an excellent job of perpetuating the commercialism of Christmas, which is not the right direction for the Polar Express to go.
__label__5 I'll say that for the most part this third film by Johnathan Mostow is pretty decent. He clearly made an effort to bring back the same atmosphere that was present in the first two films. This I very much enjoyed that aspect of it all. However, there is a somewhat diminished sense of realism in my opinion. This new terminator has flamethrowers and plasma cannons, built in of course. Oh geez... But I've come to embrace that actually. Except for that scene with KAte's 'fiance'. Didn't anyone notice a guy driving with an arm through his gut. Overdone...The cast is rather well put together, I'll give it that. Gool old Arnold is able to reprise his role as the T-101. Unfortunately this will be the final bout. John Connor is portrayed by Nick Stahil, and he does nicely. One other weakness to this film is the run time. The second film was over two hours, and there was plenty of action and what not. But there was still lots of time for character development throughout. We saw the characters' inner demons, you know? The story in "Rise of the Machines" certainly has nice plot points, but their not used to full their potential. Not only that Kate Brewster's father and Skynet. We only see an early scene "greeting" scene as a phone chat and short conversation about the system's dangers; and later the opening of "Pandora's Box". It was constantly hinted at that Skynet was already beginning its attack in subtle ways, so why not show a little more of the government tension? Getting away from that, the action is superb. Winston's studio does its job with artistic talent. I can say without a doubt the Terminators are looking better than ever. My favorite action scene by far had to be the hand-to-hand fight sequence. I find myself constantly rewinding it. Another plus is Marco Beltrami, one of my favorite composers. I'm definitely not let down. And so, Terminator 3 is an all in all decent contender, but it did not surpass either of the previous films."Desire is irrelevant. I AM a machine!"
__label__5 Arnold Schwarzenegger, Nick Stahl, Claire Danes and Kristanna Loken star in this 2003 sci-fi sequel. In this sequel, John Connor (Stahl) is older and living his life on the road secretly. He's about to meet another T-101 cyborg (Schwarzenegger) sent to protect him from a lethal female prototype assassin called, a T-X (Lokken). John reunites with an old girlfriend, Kate Brewster (Danes) who gets into the action because she's John's future wife and daughter of an Air Force General. This isn't a bad sequel, but it's not as good as the first 2 films and I missed Linda Hamilton. I still recommend this for your Terminator collection.
__label__5 In a previous review, one writer said that Marvel could have "played it safe, but went into a bold new direction".Well I don't know about you, but filling a movie with pop culture references to hook the money-spending adult-child demographic of 30 and 40 somethings, in what is quite literally "just another sci-fi adventure", is NOT taking a risk.From the very minute the film started I knew I was going to be manipulated in the most direct way, but even then sometimes you ask for it, like watching "Old Yeller" for example. But in the case of GOTG, it's pretty much shoveled in our mouths from the beginning, and with more than a spoonful of sugar.Some have compared this movie to Star Wars (which it's not), and even while that film was derivative of Saturday morning serials and classic science fiction films and TV, what made Star Wars unique is the creative ways it tips it's hat at the genre, and more specifically how hard everyone worked to make it their own. There was more depth to it, and it left you wondering, "didn't we see that in something else"? However GOTG embellishes with pop culture, very much like the roller-coaster ride operator who turns on the top 40 or R&B station while he locks you in your seat. That's not creating something unique, it's hopping on the back of something that's previously established, and it takes no effort to do so, only money.But don't take my word for it, see for yourself. In going through the other reviews, on almost every page someone writes their summary as "Hooked on a Feeling". If that doesn't resemble Pavlov's Dog, I don't know what else could.I DID like Guardian's of the Galaxy for it's art design, effects, stunts, sound design, and the battered underscore by Tyler Bates which was brilliant. But with scenes in which we have Chris Pratt making Kevin Bacon sound like a universal liberator of man during a romantic scene with Zoe Saldana, (and who references his name later in the film like a punch line) this movie is the epitome of that age old prediction, "Pop Will Eat Itself".Speaking of Pratt, I felt he's probably the weakest leading man I've ever encountered in a blockbuster film. He felt like a composite of Indiana Jones, Norma Rae and Oliver Twist all mixed into one. I cared not a single moment for his well being, his past or even his future. So no, Marvel didn't play it safe. Not by a long shot. They knew what they were doing when they licensed these songs, filled the dialog with prime time nods and then threw a bunch of fireworks at us. Not having read the comic, if these same kinds of references are in there, I'm sure I will find out soon enough. But that just reinforces my argument anyway, and leaves one to ask if we should expect more depth of storytelling, character development and not-so-easy references to day to day life from big budget features (I do!), or is it safe to say that today's blockbuster films will sacrifice originality for commonality and we should just go with it?Either way, since this is obviously the first in a new franchise, I'm sure we will find out what Marvel's priorities are in the next installment. Let's hope it's not just "The next Empire Strikes Back".
__label__5 I'm wondering, after seeing the reviews for this movie on IMDb, if this was the same movie I saw at the pictures a few weeks ago, because it absolutely boggles my mind how people can give this movie a 10/10 rating.Now, when I saw it I wasn't particularly disappointed, as I came in expecting a light-hearted childish story that passed the time, and that is exactly what it was, and I didn't feel ripped off for paying to go and see it. I really regarded it as a superhero B Movie with a big budget. It was fun but wasn't memorable at all, and there was nothing in the movie that made me really think or challenge my perspective on a particular topic, which is what I expect from a movie which is deemed by the public to be a classic.But this entirely wasn't the case. The plot line was simple, there was little to no character development or any notable acting performances, and the humour was completely childish and only really funny for someone aged 11 or under. There was no wit, satire, intelligence or anything really interesting in the movie and it was all set in your average Hollywood feel-good family fun movie template, which really doesn't appeal to mature tastes in cinema.Now, I have to say I'm not a big superhero movie fan and I'd never buy a DVD for a superhero movie, but even for a superhero movie this one wasn't even that good. In my book it was about the same quality as another superhero I recently saw, which was The Amazing Spiderman 2, which is rated about 6 or 7. Personally I can't tell how this movie is any better or worse than that movie, after all, both were cliché feel-good films with a very simple plot.I have to admit I wouldn't have even bothered writing a review for this movie had it not been for the ridiculously high rating it received on IMDb. Its 8.6 out of 10 at the minute. 8.6? That puts it ahead of absolute classics such as Django Unchained, Full Metal Jacket and Taxi Driver. How on earth this movie can be considered better than those movies is utterly unthinkable. They aren't even in the same league. This movie is several leagues below that.I hope that the rating has subsequently gone down to somewhere between 6 and 7 if you're reading this in the not-so distant future, because that's where this B Movie with a big budget really belongs.
__label__5 The central idea of "Inception" is an interesting one: technology exists to enter other people's dreams in order to steal their most private secrets or to implant new ideas. With Christopher Nolan of "Memento" fame as writer and director, this should have been a smart, compelling movie. Unfortunately, "Inception" is a bloated failure.The root problem is that Nolan replaces the fascinating surrealism of dream worlds with lengthy outtakes from James Bond movies. For example, early in the film, when Cobb and Ariadne are sitting at a café in a dream world, Cobb tells Ariadne to stay calm. What's going to happen? Is the waiter going to bring her a glass full of wriggling eyeballs? Is she going to turn around and see her best friend from high school having sex with Abraham Lincoln? No. THINGS START EXPLODING. And that's the whole movie in a nutshell: gaudy special effects and endless fight scenes as a poor substitute for imaginative ideas.The matryoshka-doll plot of dreams within dreams isn't nearly as hard to follow as one might imagine. This is largely because nothing of consequence happens at higher levels once our heroes have moved on to deeper levels. The higher-level supporting actors just fight off bad guys -- and overblown special effects -- until it's time to bring back their colleagues from the depths.Nolan should sit back, watch a few of the best movies by Luis Bunuel and David Lynch, and try again with one-tenth the budget and ten times the imagination. (Okay, that's never gonna happen, but it's *my* dream.)
__label__5 I watched the Hunger Games and Catching Fire movies before reading the books. The story was so captivating that I had to read the books. Mockingjay part 1 was already a slight disappointment because they dragged out the final book into 2 parts. As such, I already didn't have high expectations for part 2.But even my low expectations were not met. In my opinion this is the weakest of the 4 movies in the franchise.Firstly, the movie trailer practically summarizes the entire movie with all the major scenes.Secondly, the pacing was all over the place. Sometimes it felt too rushed. At other times it was just too slow. At least in part 1, the pacing was much more even.Thirdly, this is one instance where being true to the book did this movie no favors. Some storyline or dialogue changes from the book might have helped.Fourthly and I think most importantly, I felt that the movie was not made with as much care and attention as Catching Fire or even Mockingjay part 1. To me, the editing was not done well and the actors' didn't give me the impression of full commitment.Lastly, I think that Jennifer Lawrence has totally outgrown this role. She is a good actress with great emotional expression however I just could not emphatize with Katniss here. In my opinion, she expressed Katniss best in The Hunger Games/Catching Fire. But here I just felt like a spectator, watching from a distance. This emotional disconnect together with a poorly edited and paced finale led to disappointment!On the plus side, the special effects sequences were OK. And, the franchise has finally come to an end.
__label__5 Jerry Bruckheimer, you should usually know what you get and pay for with his films, but every so often one hopes that the bar will be raised. Sometimes the action and excitement works in delirious ways (a former Nicolas Cage vehicle, Con Air), and other times it sinks to new lows (Bad Boys II). Most other times, it's the home of the mall-cineplex brand of generic, mundane action movies that have competent direction and cinematography and are so over-produced that they sound much like the over-produced pop songs featured on the soundtrack. The Sorcerer's Apprentice, another Bruckheimer movie directed by Jon Turtletaub and starring Cage is no exception. But the potential that is squandered is what is kind of sad. Kind of, I say, since it could have been worse.It's the old story of a young guy plucked up to be the "chosen one" because he has some kind of gift (or he's just interested, both are the case here), and has a 'master' (not a mentor, there's a difference I guess) who teaches him the ropes. Jay Baruchel and Cage play apprentice and master, and they're facing off against Alfred Molina's Horvath, one of three Merlin students who are now foes in 2010 vying to stop/open a vase with an evil witch in their who can destroy the world, yada yada, Baruchel has a girl he wants to be with and/or protect, so on so forth. The script is by the numbers, so much so that watching the trailer you only get a hint as to how laid-out everything is. If you guessed, for example, that there will be a moment when the young hero decides this isn't for him because it's "too hard", you guessed right. And if you guessed that he comes back, you just won the 64,000 dollars.What's the potential here? Not so much Jay Baruchel, who once again plays the wimpy nerd who has a few clever one liners and is mostly just a by-the-book nerdy guy (worked much better in How to Train Your Dragon by the way). It's the older stars, Cage and Molina, that could have so much fun with their roles. On occasion they do, and one can tell they had some thrills putting on their old-style costumes- Cage in particular looking like he could be out of film-noir as much as a sorcerer- but the script gives them little to do except declare things to other characters and deliver exposition. It's sad especially to see Cage, who had two roles in a role where he came alive (Terence McDonaugh and Big Daddy), slumming it in ways reminiscent of Next or Bangkok Dangerous. He takes the role where it goes, but he's just really there, all apart of the bland action-movie veneer. Where's the excitement, even if it's bad excitement, when he flies a mechanical eagle across the sky or shoots fireballs?Perhaps for children this should do; watching it I could imagine the Nostalgia Critic (or Nostalgia Critic Jr) taking it to task, years down the line. It has cool special effects and a modern soundtrack and a good-lookin' female supporting love interest for Baruchel who will probably get a lot of work soon. It's also got a wooden plot and only one really neat action/chase scene, in Times Square with mirrors. It's a mostly flat Hollywood endeavor with a few really talented people.
__label__5 This fantasy film has a lot going for it: an engaging story, lavish Disney production, the exciting location of New York City, and a talented cast including Nic Cage, Alfred Molina, Jake Cherry and many strong support actors. Unfortunately all this was wasted by casting the dismally tedious Jay Baruchel in the lead role, and demanding that he act in a knockabout comedy style which is jarring and out of place. Cage and Baruchel share many scenes, but they appear to be acting in two different films. Without the incredibly annoying Baruchel and the poor script he was given, this could have been a great (non-comedy) film.
__label__5 On New Year's Eve, the luxury cruise ship Poseidon is hit by an enormous wave that flips it upside-down stranding thousands of passengers underwater. A group of passengers join together to try to escape the ship.The original Poseidon was decent disaster film. It had engaging characters, decent special effects and a cheesy storyline. The remake is more or less the same minus the interesting characters, charm and suspense. Okay, the remake did have a few suspenseful scenes though nothing very memorable or original. The reason why the film wasn't very suspenseful was because the characters were all one dimensional and dull. There was no character development at all so it was hard to care for these people. While watching the movie, it's just easier to refer to them as generic titles like "the old guy" or something. Actually, if you use this method then you can probably figure out who will die and in what order they will die.The acting is very weak and unconvincing. Josh Lucas is an okay actor but he wasn't very good here. He just didn't make a good hero nor was his character very likable. Kurt Russell was okay, nothing special. Emmy Rossum was terrible as Jennifer. Her performance felt so forced and over the top. The way she expressed her emotions just looked so fake and unconvincing. Jimmy Bennett was just annoying as Conor. Richard Dreyfuss was very misused and his character seemed out of place. Jacinda Barrett gives a laughable performance, it was just very poor. I should warn you (or comfort you?) that Stacy Ferguson from the Black Eyed peas is only in the movie for about 10 minutes, maybe a little less.When judged as a disaster film, Poseidon is actually pretty decent. The special effects were great though 160 million was obviously just a bit too much. Wolfgang Petersen is really good at making a film appear stylish including the ship which looked amazing. His storytelling skills aren't as good though. The combination of a weak script didn't help matters either. The movie was just too corny at times for my taste. For example, there was once scene where Josh Lucas was planning to escape the ballroom and one by one, the rest of the characters just come up and ask to come along. It was just a bit too obvious and they should have handled it differently. I also thought it was kind of dumb that all the characters were able to hold their breath underwater for large amounts of time. Despite these flaws, there were a few engaging scenes and some touching moments. Also, the movie is pretty short so it's not really too much of a pain to sit through. This helped the experience a little though I wouldn't have minded a longer movie. In the end, Poseidon may not be worth checking out in theaters but it should make for a decent rental. Rating 6/10
__label__5 I enjoyed the 2010 "Alice in Wonderland" that had that unique Tim Burton touch to it. But I wasn't in any rush to get to see the 2016 sequel "Alice: Through the Looking Glass". Why? Well, because just what more could there be to tell about this story?With that being said, then don't get me wrong. "Alice: Through the Looking Glass" is not a bad movie, it just seems like a movie that hardly was necessary to have been made. It is a good movie in itself, and works quite well as a stand-alone, if you will.The effects in "Alice: Through the Looking Glass" were great, as they also were in the previous movie. And it was nice to see the beloved characters from the first movie return, and also to see the amazing job that the special effects team pulled off at bringing the world to life. Lots of details, vivid colors and memorable characters.The actors and actresses in the movie were doing good jobs with their given roles, and it was a great treat to have the original cast return to play their characters once again. The Time character was interesting, but it left a less than savory taste in my mouth that they had cast Sacha Baron Cohen for this role. He is not an actor that I am too fond of, so in my opinion another cast would have been preferable. I do enjoy the Mad Hatter character and Johnny Depp does a great job in portraying him. And it was nice to get to see more of that quirky character and get to know more of his background.The special effects and wardrobe teams really are the ones shining in this movie, because there are just so many wonderful things to look at throughout the movie. And the level of creativity is just astounding. No matter where you look there is something breathtaking."Alice: Through the Looking Glass" is certainly an entertaining movie, but it is hardly one that you will sit down and watch again any time soon.
__label__5 Just saw this movie last night. I thoroughly enjoyed the scenery and special effects, and the costumes were spectacular. The plot also had some interesting twists, albeit with some silly ones mixed in with them.A minor quirk in this film was that I had to turn on the subtitles to understand some of the characters. The Mad Hatter and King of Time, for example, had really thick accents that made their spoken language hard to comprehend.But the major drawback to this movie was its naive portrayal of human nature that borders on the offensive.While it is certainly true that "you can't change the past but can learn from it," which is demonstrated vividly throughout the film, the movie unfortunately propagates the misguided notion that you can somehow ***change other people.*** If one tries to do that in the real world, they almost always will be sorely disappointed.Unrealistic *physics* in movies (and stories) can be thrilling, and a lot of fun. But unrealistic *human nature* in stories, on the other hand, can give people false impressions about life and relationships -- not to mention that it makes it extremely difficult to relate to the characters in the story. Those characters might as well be robots or space aliens.In this film, the Red Queen is an abusive jerk -- supposedly all because her sister told a small lie to her when they were kids. The movie then tries to show the viewer that if it weren't for this one single childhood incident, then the Red Queen supposedly would've turned out fine. However, it is clear that she *already was* a jerk prior to that incident. And if it hadn't happened, then obviously, *something else* during her childhood would've "set her off" sooner or later, instead.So, as an adult, the White Queen thinks she can simply *apologize* to her abusive sister for that one incident, and then, the White Queen can finally *trust* her sister again?That is pure, wishful thinking that has absolutely no basis in reality. With those kinds of people, it's best to *keep one's distance* -- not to suck up to them like a masochistic doormat.Anyway, the next interesting relationship in this film is the one between Alice and her mom. Her mom isn't abusive like the Red Queen, but simply has a different outlook on life than Alice's. Instead of hoping that her mom would "change," Alice instead could choose to just share in the things they both have in common, and leave the other matters alone. In other words, Alice could still have a good relationship with her mom, but a ***less close one*** than they might have wished for. Alice could still pursue her dreams while paying an occasional visit to her mom.Lastly, I'd like to examine the Mad Hatter's comment that "you only get one" family in life.This is just plain false.What about all the people who grew up in an abusive family -- who fled when they were teenagers, and later developed a close family relationship with a close friend's family, or with that of a future spouse? One of the main reasons I loved Avatar, and Tim Burton's 2010 version of Alice in Wonderland, is because of the inspirational theme of "flying away and finding one's place" in the world where you can be happy.This theme was sorely missing from the 2016 version of Alice Through the Looking Glass.All in all, this was a fun movie, but with a confusing and lackluster message.
__label__5 I'm a huge fan of the first Shrek and the second one also exceeded my expectations. Both of those movies had an meaningful and multidimensional plot. They also shared clever humor and for the most part unpredictable. I was extremely excited for the the third movie and I have to unfortunately say I was totally disappointed! The whole time I was waiting for it to start, like trying to convince myself, "ok, any second now it will pick up" - but it never did. The plot is so thin and unexciting - Prince Charming wants to takeover the throne while Shrek wants to get a young (King) Arthur to replace him as next in line to the throne. You never really feel any interest in what is happening or what will happen to the characters because you know exactly whats going to happen. Basically I spent the movie forcing myself to laugh because, hey, I was watching a Shrek movie. I know this review will not stop anyone who loved the previous movies from going to the third, but I just want to warn that its nothing to rush to or stand in line for.
__label__5 I have been bouncing around for weeks in anticipation of this movie. As a huge fan of the first two movies, I was sure this one would not disappoint. But, oh, how wrong I was! While not as bad as many a film out there, this installment is yet a sad shadow of its series.And it tries, it really did try. To its credit, there were several very clever scenes. The typical Snow White's gift with animals takes an awesome turn, and I can guarantee that you will never laugh harder at a death scene than the one of this movie. The animation? Top-notch.I just guess effort doesn't always beat out sheer inspiration. A film with a few moments does not win against a good, simple movie.The desire to produce a film merely ended up as a plot device to get Shrek and Fiona back to their beloved swamp. A long, boring plot device. With the passing of King Harold, Shrek and Fiona are heirs to the throne of Far, Far Away. Unfortunately, that does not interest them, so Shrek goes on a journey to bring back the next guy, a young Arthur "Artie" Pendragon. Heck, why not? Everyone loves a good Camelot infusion, and Artie is as flawed and as likable as you could want. Unfortunately, he is only one character in a cheesy madhouse of minor characters and cameos. In the effort to get everyone their screen time, that whole plot gets lost in the background.Which normally wouldn't be a problem. After all, the original movie did not have the most complex of plots. What it had was a few incredible characters. The second movie added a few more, but still kept it delightfully manageable. This time, it seemed that the powers that be assumed we already knew everything about Shrek, Donkey, Puss, and the rest of the bunch that we really didn't need to see them. Hey, let's bring in one more characters for the audience, but refuse to give them time to get to know them! Poor, pathetic lack of character development.So back to the plot. The few times that came around, it was pretty much a tacky, forced attempt to create some pseudo father/son relationship between Shrek and Artie. Good intentions, but no cigar. Maybe if we had more time... But we don't, so let's just wrap it up with a few corny lines about understanding and rising to the occasion. Yeah, we got that the first time around, and without any of the verbal commentary.On top of that, this film misses that inexplicable spark of the first two installments. I'm sorry, but I just didn't feel it. Just as a lukewarm attempt of continuing the series and aiming at a five-year old audience.Sorry. Not my favorite of the series by any means, leaving me to wonder how a sequel to films of such genius as "Shrek" and "Shrek 2" could make something so average?
__label__5 The phenomenal success of the Shrek franchise - particularly "Shrek 2" - has prompted Dreamworks Animation to yet again squeeze out a story of an erstwhile happily ended tale and return to the screen once again with "Shrek the Third", which brings back most of the original cast, and then some, for another round of jabs at fairy tales and pop culture.The Kingdom of Far Far Away is faced with another dilemma: King Harold (John Cleese) has just died and next in line to the throne is Shrek (Mike Myers), who doesn't want to have anything to do with ruling a kingdom. So he goes to search for Artie (Justin Timberlake), Fiona's cousin and the third in line to the throne, in Worcestershire (no kidding), a medieval high school where all students seem to have jumped out of a Hollywood teen flick. Meanwhile, Fiona is pregnant with Shrek as a reluctant father; and Prince Charming teams up with villains from various fairy tales in an effort to take over the kingdom.While, yes, it's considerably better than "Happily N'Ever After", it's hard to define the movie as anything more than a disappointing mediocrity. It had the chance to be just as good as its predecessor, yet except for a few jokes, it doesn't generate consistent amusement or cleverness when it comes to delivering the laughs. Even with new characters that include Snow White (Amy Poehler), Cinderella (Amy Sedaris), Sleeping Beauty (Cheri Oteri), and Rapunzel (Maya Rudolph) voiced by Saturday Night Live comedians, the film seems to have lost all sense of wit and humor that has made its first two predecessors a fun experience.As for the material itself, the narrative doesn't seem to have any real motivation or progression. It's merely stretching a premise into an hour-and-a-half end product that merely panders to the filmmakers' whims of extending a lucrative franchise that may be starting to run on fumes. It was easy to ride with these characters in the first film because the animated genre is incredibly trampled with clichés. But a joke can only be said so much before it starts to wear out. Here, directors Chris Miller and Raman Hui fail to give the characters any quality that would evoke sympathy, considering that the story falls flat and perfunctory."Shrek the Third" might still appeal to younger audiences, but that's about it as far as recommendations go. Save for sporadic chuckles, the audience I watched it with were quiet throughout the film. It feels hastily assembled and thrown together slapdash, without any attention to what made the first two work, and Dreamworks should get a clue that the ogre is starting to overstay his welcome.
__label__5 I had high expectations for this movie. When I saw Shrek 2, I was pleasantly surprised. Few sequels are as good as the original, but Shrek 2 was.Shrek the third did not continue this trend. While there were sill plenty of funny moments, it was nowhere near as amusing or original as the first two. They could have done so much more with this movie if they had tried. At the end, I felt sort of cheated.However, Shek the third isn't a bad movie in itself, only when compared to the others. I would still recommend going to see it. Unlike most, I liked Artie's character, even if he did talk too much (I'm not even a Justin Timberlake fan).
__label__5 Halfway through the third installment of the popular CGI franchise, "Shrek," one gets the distinct feeling that the end is near. What prompts these emotions? Oh, just the fact that the writers seem to have run out of ideas, funny jokes and interesting new characters.I suppose I'd feel different if I were an eight-year-old child, but ...As far as ideas go, the plot here has Harold, the frog king of Far Far Away (voice of John Cleese), dying (a hilarious segment that recalls Paul Reubens death scene in "Buffy, The Vampire Slayer") and trusting the kingdom to either Shrek (Mike Myers in his Scottish brogue) or the monarch's wimpy nephew, Arthur (Justin Timberlake). Meanwhile, in another bit of inspired comedy, defeated "Prince" Charming (Rupert Everett) is reduced to performing in a cheap dinner theater.This is basically where the originality ends, however. That does not mean the rest of the picture is bad - it is at least entertaining - but there's not much new any more. If "Shrek The Third" were a person, he'd be yelling at the neighbor kids to get off his lawn and eating supper at the IHOP at 3:30 p.m.Cases in point: Princess Fiona (Cameron Diaz) finds out she's pregnant and, like every expectant father in TV sit-com history, Shrek is frightened by his future parental obligations; Charming enlists all of the fairy tale villains in the land to join with him, invade Far Far Away and change the outcome of nursery rhymes (sounds like the plot of the turkey from earlier this year, "Happily N'ever After"); and the captured women of Far Far Away, Fiona, Queen Lillian (Julie Andrews), Sleeping Beauty, Cinderella, Snow White and Rapunzel (voiced by "SNL" cast members Cheri Oteri, Amy Sedaris, Amy Poehler and Maya Rudolph, respectively) become ninja warriors to try and save the day. Ho hum.Even the goofy antics of sidekicks Donkey (Eddie Murphy) and Puss-In-Boots (Antonio Banderas), as well as the vocal "talents" of Regis Philbin and Larry King (as the two ugly stepsisters), bring only smiles and smirks instead of side-splitting laughs like in the old days. In fact, the writers are forced to use the word "poop" several times to try and please an increasingly immature and vapid film-going audience.Only "Monty Python" alum Eric Idle (as an addled Merlin the Magician who switches Donkey and Puss' personalities) is even remotely funny and original among the new characters.After a battle featuring more windbag philosophy than daring-do, the rightful king is crowned and Fiona goes on to have a litter of baby ogres, who  like the Ewoks in "Return of the Jedi"  look cute, but add nothing special to the production.Even the usually-clever closing credits (where the cast sings a classic song) was uninspired and listless this time around.As usual, the animation of this series is first-rate; unfortunately, the story does not match the technology and those who appreciate the combination will most likely be left feeling a bit empty inside.
__label__5 Paul McCartney is a great songwriter. Let me just get that out of the way. But he isn't perfect. Take for example the song, "Live and Let Die", a song he wrote in the '70s for a Bond movie of the same name. The song is used briefly in Dreamworks' latest outing for everyone's favorite Scots ogre. In the song he actually wrote this line: "But if in this ever changing world in which we live in". "In which we live in"? Was he kidding? A great talent, but that is some lazy songwriting. I figure he was either exhausted, or under contract, as opposed to being inspired.And that's the problem with this entire movie. The writing is simply not up to par. The story is loaded down with so many different elements that it is impossible to develop any of them. You can almost see the writers thinking, "Okay, now we've got a bunch of stuff for Shrek, Donkey, and Puss to do. Let's put in some stuff for Fiona and Lillian here..." The result is that there's a script, but no real story. And the dialog with some exceptions, is full of the clichés they so happily lampooned in earlier Shreks. The result comes across as a 3rd or 4th draft. Andrew Adamson directed the previous two Shreks and has one of the writing credits here, but he did not direct it. I guess the franchise is so important now that it must be handled by two directors, neither of whom has Adamson's knack for timing. At various points in the evening, the pace was surprisingly ponderous.It's not unpleasant, as movies go. It's just disappointing when such an average film continues a series of such good ones.
__label__5 The Terminator movies (sans TS - I am not even sure if it's part of the cannon) are basically chase films with the element of time travel thrown in to create unique Sci-fi protagonists and antagonists.The first two films were smart enough to understand the limitations of time travel as a viable "science" and hence kept the focus on it's characters, surroundings and action (note : I do not say special effects). T3 tried to explain away the canonical inconsistencies (eg. it's existence) with some quantum mumbo-jumbo, but again it was kept at a bare minimum (almost hinted), showing a self awareness from the writers that even if you need to write stupid stuff for exposition, it's not necessary to go full blown Shyamalan on things. Of course, T3 is nowhere clinical in it's nightmarish quality of T1 or matured enough for the majesty of T2, but at least it looked like the people behind the movie were trying sincerely.TG jumps into the bandwagon of using time travel as a rebooting device, which currently is the go-to template for many franchises (XMEN, Star Trek). But it makes the cardinal sin of driving ALL plot elements through this device multiple times. Hence, you are left with bizarre recitation of quantum fields, alternate time-lines, nexuses in time points associated with important events, all wrapped in "delivery under 60 seconds" by Arnold's "Pops" (Dear me, Arnold and Quantum Theory in the same sentence). Mix into this Internet/Cloud/AI, phase matter, time displacement with a dash of 12 Monkeys - all stamped with Hollywood's grasp of "science", and you start wondering why was the Kitchen Sink left out. The movie really doesn't have a plot line as such. It's feels more like a re-edited version of separate episodes stitched into a movie, to throw a glimpse into the life of these characters over a period of 2?3?4? days. Each day/episode starts with a shocking (read : spoiled by trailer) reveal, followed by "scientific" explanations, followed by CGI explosions and chase. The less said about the ending the better - the "emotional moment" where the survivors think they will "live happily ever after" has concrete foundations in "Marvel Studio Science" - the current rage of Hollywood. The feeling of clunky and disjointed adventures for our saviors of humankind is more akin to Stargate tag line ("Saving the universe one day at a time") rather than a complete coherent movie, even if it be a summer popcorn/potboiler/studio crash grab event.Now Arnold can play a terminator without getting out of bed in the morning, and sometimes it feels exactly like that - there are many instances where he was just disinterested in the proceedings. He also has the onerous task of providing dumb plot expositions every time the "plot" takes a hard right/left. One is left to wonder that with this much encyclopedic knowledge on the universe and decades of readiness, why he never leaned how to fist fight against his fellow 800s.The movie might also be called "The death of Kyle Reese as we came to love him", as Jai Courtney is probably the biggest miscast for the role (bigger than Matthew Goode as Ozymandius in Watchmen) . Gone are Michael Bhein's nuance portrayal of a psychologically scarred and physically fatigued soldier doomed to a tragic fate as he tries to fight impossible odds to save the women he loves. Instead, we have a clean shaved and chiseled smart-ass who spends the entire movie being a HUGE ass**** to Arnold (with multiple stare contests between him and Arnold ALA Twilight) , and who is looking to "score" with Emilia Clarke's Sarah (not bad in the role). Even though he says he will die for her more than once, the delivery is just not reliable. A big element of Reese's character in T1 was his virginity, something the audiences gulped down because of Bhein's performance. Courtney's Reese comes across someone who LOVES his soldier job way too much and has tamed many members of the opposite sex. There is ZERO chemistry between the two, and the inherent romance (which in my opinion was quite smart in Terminator) becomes another obligatory check box for the movie to tick. I wont even go into the "humor" between Arnold and Emilia on this topic (borrowed from T3) that the movie tries to choke it audiences with multiple times.Mostly everything in the action scenes are CGI, but in majority they are not distracting, except when they CGI-ed Arnold all over. There are multiple chase sequences of varied length and complexities - not bad, but nothing we haven't seen before in other movies.Twice we hear Fidel's epic Drumbeats from the Terminator theme, but that's it. Rest of the soundtrack is so off, that these two instances come more like a reminder of the good times we had decades ago, while TG gleefully murders everything that was great about T1 and T2 (come to think of it, T3 is a masterpiece compared to this). The final nail in the coffin - "Bad Boys" playing in the background as characters get their mugshots (don't ask).
__label__5 The newest entry to the Terminator franchise, strives with towering efforts to reclaim the glory of its two James Cameron-directed predecessors, but miserably fails to deliver even a faint hint of wit and sense, in the wake of its convoluted confusion-infested time-travel narrative.In this fifth installment, ill-wittedly conceived and called GENISYS, The Terminator is definitely back, but his legacy is dead, butchered to bits of rusty metal junks through lazy and uncreative reinvention of its original source material. The timeline is set back to 1984. Skynet sends its own terminator from 2029, to kill Sarah Connor (Emilia Clarke), mother of future subversive leader of the resistance, John Connor (Jason Clarke). Consequently, a human, Kyle Reese (Jai Courtney) is also sent to stop the terminator, in humanity's desperate hope to save their species. At the time, Sarah is already being protected by her guardian terminator (Arnold Schwarzenegger), whose reasons of arriving in her time, is seemingly set to be never known.Time-travel has always been a fascinating subject, and it in such fashion that Terminator: Genisys, attempts to build its own stronghold in the mold of the first two films. The take assumes an interesting onset, depicting an apocalyptic future where machines lord over the human minority, but it spirals down to fatal loops of nonsensical uncreatively-staged retreads when the what can be considered the inception of human salvation (Schwarzenegger's Terminator's arrival), begins. Once the deadly cat-and-mouse chases spin out of control, confusion begins, and the film itself, can't be bothered to clear off heads as it totally busy itself to trying to awe-inspire spectators, with elaborately-constructed action setpieces, teeming with CGI-mastered explosions, pursuits, and fight scenes. There's no denying that such attempt is carried out with colossal success, but the audience would inevitably find appreciating the feat, difficult and pointless . The proceedings are sutured into recreations of some iconic scenes of the original movies, while also devising its own, at the same time. But even with all these efforts, GENISYS still fails to generate sustained interest. The result of its motives manages to hit some of the nostalgic beats of the franchise, but tepid one-liners and confusing paradoxes would drag down its capacity to last. It is also by these narrative defects that interest is being stripped off its key players, making the audience barely care about the characters and the imminence of their extinction. This is why Genisys is way below the glory of its predecessors--the dread is barely present, and fear is forced, thus ineffective.There is a screaming irony that bursts at the heels of this attempt to reinvigorate the sagging Terminator series: The Terminator (Schwarzenegger) returns to the past to save the whole of humankind, but the mess that is GENISYS, murders the franchise. 5/10
