__label__10 I was lucky to see Avatar at a pre-screening a few hours ago. It completely blew me and the whole room away and i dare to say it will do so to 80% of any audience anywhere. The remaining 20%, who always finds something to complain about, will whine about character development, dialog, story or the pop-corn.Well, let me tell you: they went to this movie with the wrong expectations.You have most likely met Cameron's previous work(s): Aliens, Terminator 1 & 2, The Abyss, Titanic (!), just to name a few.So WHAT should you expect from Avatar??? MORE of the same!!! More of revolutionary film-making, more of grandiose new ideas, more of never-before-seen special effects, more of 150 minutes without relapsing, more of the James Cameron genius...I am very happy that the trailers didn't give the full story away. Lots of emotions are waiting for the viewer, laughter and tears also. Cameron was very smart keeping the teasers as teasers, nothing more... as the full movie will take your breath away.You will practically not notice that you are watching a non-existing world, it is sooo real. Attention to detail is superb. You computer geeks will know what I am talking about. This move was not rushed in the making. No wonder it could not have been done before - not having the proper computing power.The wild life, the jungle, the animals, the Na'vi-s, or the dragon-like flying creatures are all so life-like, they almost pop-off the screen (and in 3D they actually do :) .The sound effects were so well done, that when I saw at the credits that Skywalker Sound was behind it, i could only think of "yessss... now THAT makes sense."Cameron is a visionaire - and again, he delivers, with full blast.A certain character says in the movie that Pandora (the planet where the story takes place) became his real world. My advice to you: let Pandora become YOUR real world for two and a half hours, let it make you completely forget about your life and problems, let it entertain you, move you, let it carry you away.Because THAT is what i expect as an exchange for my ticket.And a few hours ago i got tens of tickets worth of that.
__label__10 I saw this epic last night at the Empire Leicester Sq in London, which is a superb venue in which to view this film. Huge screen, excellent sound and an extraordinary Dolby, 3 dimensional image. The whole effect is mind blowing.This is a 'Must see' movie, innovative, and extraordinary. I think it will be regarded by most cinema goers as another milestone in the history of the art. The level of realism achieved is remarkable, and although the film is relatively long in real time, it retains it's excitement and holds the audience's attention to the end.Performances are good, but this is not the sort of film that dwells on big star value for the actors, although Sigorney Weaver does shine and delivers a very convincing performance, as do the rest of the cast. But as there is so much entertainment and action value on screen the human element does not dominate in the usual way.As Writer/Director, James Cameron deserves high praise for this creation and in my opinion it will break box office records. I thoroughly enjoyed this film.
__label__10 When movies are created, they are done so with intent. Different genres of film target specific audiences, a formula which has sustained Hollywood and it's industries since the beginning of the blockbuster movies. When a movie is created in a manner that sets in motion any given goal, said films success is pendant on whether or not that goal is reached. If a comedy creates laughter, or if a romance produces tears, then they are successes in their own right. So when a massively ambitious, seemingly impossible to create film aiming to usher in a new era manages to grab hold of it's audience and take them on an unprecedented cinematic roller coaster ride that delivers the goods every turn of the way, it can be considered successful. Avatar is that success.A work in progress that spanned a decade and a half, Avatar is more than just a film - it's an experience, an event. When James Cameron set out to make this movie back in the mid 90's, he realized that his ambitions were simply too far ahead of their time. His ideas could not be reached in a feasible manner, and due to this, he had to wait. Or create. Once informed that the image he held for this film was one that was out of grasp, he began working on the technology that would bring his masterpiece within reach. Fifteen years and nearly half a billion dollars later, James Cameron has brought that vision to the screen, and has done so in an extravagant and showstopping way.Avatar tells the tale of a war between species, each fighting for the ultimate survival of their race. Desperate to find the fuel for their dying planet, human soldiers and scientists set out from earth and set course for Pandora. A planet connected by all living things, Pandora is home to an indigenous species known as the Na'vi, as well as the precious element Unobtanium needed to save earth. Using transference technology, paralyzed marine Jake Sully is volunteered for the "Avatar Program", which enables the thoughts and mind of a human to be placed within the shell of a tube-born Na'vi body. Using this as technique to their advantage, Jake is sent into the harsh Jungles of Pandora in order to bond with the natives, thus gaining knowledge and insight on their ways. Having originally planned to use this knowledge as a means of negotiating the natives relocation, so that the humans can access the deposit of Unobtainium - which just happens to sit below their most worshiped and valued pseudo-deity of their planet.While the plot on paper may read as a standard shoot'em-up action sci-fi flick, it is a near inconceivable task to truly explain how incorrect this appearance truly is. This takes a stroke from every movie, and a dab from every genre, and manages to create a portrait of beauty, in which all pre-existing notion of what cinema can and cannot do is destroyed. Within the lengthy hundred and sixty some odd minutes of film, moviegoers will find that there is always something to keep them enthralled, a merciful gift when considering how tedious many of the longer film of recent memory can become.No matter what can be said about the overtly cheesy script,a criticism that, while holding true, manages to fit charmingly into the over-the-top nature of the film, Avatar does as it set out to do, bringing moviegoers a cinematic experience rather than a film. Relying on the technology that he created, Cameron pours his heart into this movie, and it shows in every scene. Ranging from the absurdly detailed creatures to all-too-realistic planet, this flick manages to tell a fulfilling story while all the while throwing jaw-dropping scenery at the audience, giving them only enough time to recover before bombarding them with yet another breathtaking shot.Be it the fantastical and charming love story told between the native and the outsider, or the too-real-to-be-true action scenes between gunships and foreign ferals, Avatar is what Star Wars was too the 70's, the Wizard Of Oz of the 40's - a masterpiece that will go down in movie history as a game changer of it's time.4 Stars out of 4 Stars
__label__10 AVATAR has a soul I saw AVATAR today. It was a boiling 40 degrees Celsius in Australia. I caught a bus and train to get there. I spent months on a forum before that. Incremental stops included a scriptment, stills, a teaser, a foot, AVATAR day and a full trailer. Now released I have had many reviews to read which have been mostly very positive. It is a marvel to watch. The opening scenes are very sci-fi with a glimpse of low gravity aboard a space-craft. Sam Worthington fills us in with a short narration. He is taking over his diseased brother's role in the AVATAR program. These opening scenes are actually among the most effective 3D in the film, pulling you into this story, tracking shots putting you into the steps of the characters. I jump ahead, like the film, to The world of Pandora which is lush with earthly life as seen through pulp fantasies. The rendering of this world is terrific. The life and activity is in the plants as much as it is the animals. Wonder is generated with this ambitious creation. Cameron has lifted the bar. The CG is the best I have ever seen. Everything you have heard is true. The 3D enhances this with leaves falling and swaying branches life-like in the foreground. The realisation of the Navii is also ambitious. They are CG but there are many moments that make you think they are real and in terms of the story they are more than good enough to propel the narrative with strong emotional content. I went into this film knowing mostly everything within it. Hours of reading, some from the treatment and pages of the recent reviews. It is very much a family film like "Nealz" said in his IMDb review. There is a moment where one of the ferocious animal species that earlier were attacking Jake are seen with a litter, the children in the audience loved the cute pups! The spiritual side of this film is much better than expected. It is in fact a beautiful story. The structure is classical film-making but with amazingly new scope in CGI to express grand images. An epic The journey that Jake takes through Pandora is lovely. He is taken in by the Navii and explores their culture, language and habitat. Natirii, the female Navii he meets while lost, helps him through this journey. This is a love story of both soul mates and with a wider picture. Existential connections with the natural world. Personal destiny. I had tears in this film. I tried to hold them back but by the roll of credits they came. This is a movie that I have anticipated for so long. I think the ingredients of its story and my connection to this films production gave me a very emotional response. I cant imagine this disappointing any of the fans on the board. Keeping in mind that it is a family film but delivered everything I wanted. Expect a special edition. After AVATAR is a hit, a special edition will make its way to the cinema. I can understand why they would cut the earth scenes and it works. The actual film seems pretty brisk and it could also have more padding out. You want more of it and that is a triumph for this type of film running two and a half hours. It is a good balance because at two and a half hours AVATAR is aimed directly at the cinema going audience. Broadly appealing with elements for everyone. My earlier prediction of a billion or more world-wide seems safe. I don't want to go on about visuals too much but the lovely shots of the natural wonderland of glowing life in still 3D shots is magical. Something to take kids to see. Floating tiny neon life jellyfish their way through the air with grace. The monkey-like extra-limbed creatures with the peeping eyes flock through the forrest quickly. The creature design is done in a clever way with the motion of a living thing. The action is over the top, epic, frenetic and a new take on the battle sequence. James Cameron didn't stuff this up. He probably pressed the studio way beyond their comfort zone with the time, money and effort that has gone into this. Sam Worthington is excellent casting choice. Sigourney Weaver ads frank reason. Stephen Lang chews the scenery as the ultimate you know what. Zoe Saldana is beautiful as Jakes guide into this world and. I went to the cinema and it was a very hot day. By the time I left the cinema, the streets were wet with rain. A warm humidity was thick in the air. Lightning splashed my walk to the train station with white light. I honestly wondered if It was my time to be struck down with a bolt of electricity from the sky. Watch this film. It is destined to become a childhood classic to many little-ones too young to be on this forum. It will be talked about at high school by male and females as spectacular. It will be watched multiple times by fans. I loved it but beyond my appreciation for the film itself, is the the message of love permeating from this movie that I hope enters the zeitgeist like elements of Cameron's other stories have. At its heart is a soul. AVATAR is an achievement in many technical departments but I wouldn't say the story is deficient. It is a beautiful experience and the story is surprisingly what I loved most. Believe the hype.
__label__10 This movie is truly spectacular!!! Non stop action, with a surprising ending. If it weren't for the silliness of the Jack Sparrow clones, I would give it a 9 and 1/2. It takes a little away from the film's momentum. As far as the final battle rivaling that of the LOTR trilogy, I would say no. This trilogy will go down as one of the great trilogies. Breathtaking special effects, and fabulous scenery. All in all, a great film. It must be viewed in the theater. It is better than Dead Man's Chest, but I still like the overall story line of Curse of the Blach Pearl better. As always, be sure to stick around after the credits for an extra scene. This one adds to the plot of the film and gives viewers some closure after a heart wrenching finale. Make sure you check this film out.
__label__10 If you, like me, were disappointed by the over-hyped, sloppy and disappointing returns of Shrek and Spiderman in the first two mega-threquels of the summer, then I have good news for you. One third entry in a huge cinema franchise is every bit as good as you would expect.While lacking the surprise of the original, the third Pirates film is much better than the second (though I liked it, I thought it had too many jokes and gags; a lot of the heart in the first was missing it seemed). Its lengthier, and not in a slowed-down way. Longer meaning more action, more characters (Chow Yun Fat and Keith Richards are awesome), and a final battle so enriched with awesome design, careful choreography and stunning visual effects it will blow your mind.The cast is great, the thrills all first-rate. I don't want to give away any of the surprises and great moments to die-hard fans like myself. Just trust me: this summer spend your buck on Pirates...it's worth it!!!!
__label__10 Do not listen to the stingy critics!! This movie is AMAZING! Everything you hoped for and more. I can't wait to see it again. The fact that it is a long movie makes it all the better for the viewer because you get more of all the adventure, romance and breathtaking scenes. The writing is incredible, the acting is the best it has been since the beginning, and the artistry is second-to-none. There is no fluff, every scene means something. It's funny, intriguing and keeps you on the edge of your seat. My heart didn't stop pounding until long after the credits ended. It's the kind of movie that stays with you. It's satisfying IF this is the last Pirates, and it leaves you wanting more IF we are to be blessed with a fourth. Bottom line is: go see this movie, and have a great time doing it!
__label__10 Overall, its a movie, pure entertainment. I loved it, it was fun to watch. I could sit here and delve into the plot and stuff but i would rather just take it as it is. And what it is:A funny action comedy with Johnny Depp appearing as the most memorable character of our time. If that wasn't enough then the screenplay is "complicated" for a reason, you can watch it over and over and it does not get old because you gain something else from it every time you re watch it.The writers, director, and score all hit their mark in this one. The movie could last 3 more hours for all I care. All this movie does it make you want more.
__label__10 Finally we get to have some fun in the Daniel Craig era. Skyfall was good but underwhelming. This brings back the punches of classic Bond and has outstanding performances from Craig, Seydoux, and Waltz. Not to mention Harris (who is becoming crucial and wonderful in her character development), Fiennes, Winshaw, and Kinnear. Also Bellucci and Bautista serve their roles very well. Waltz was the funnest to watch and I always pegged him for this role of Bond villain since I first saw Inglorious Basterds and boy, he did not disappoint. He eats up his scenes and eschews the sadistic egomaniac with charm, style, and class. The scenery and shooting were breathtaking especially the shots in the Austrian Alps and the Train sequence was a great nod to the ghosts of Bonds past (From Russia with Love and The Spy Who Loved Me). Let's hope for many more.
__label__10 Spectre may be receiving mixed reviews within the community, but I believe that this is simply credited to the fact that Spectre differs from the other Craig Bond films like Casino Royale and Skyfall. This latest installment, in my own opinion, tips the hat to the old Bond-style of action that we loved in most of the earlier films. Granted it is not as brash as say Goldfinger, with character names such as Pussy Galore. But it doesn't exactly fit into the box of Daniel Craig's films either. This movie tells a story. It isn't just nice suits, and cars with beautiful woman surrounded by flying bullets in front of the canvas of a massive explosion (even if this film does boast the record for the largest stunt explosion in movie history). No, this movie gives us some nice character development. With a nod to the many years of Bond that has preceded Craig. It was a nice feeling to think that as a Bond fan across the the entire Franchise, that I was privy to some knowledge and little Easter eggs that maybe some of the newly converted fans (those that have joined the agency only since Craig assumed the 00-status) may not have caught on too. The only downside I could see anyone pointing out with this film is maybe the length of the film. This film could be reviewed as a rather long one, especially to those who might lose interest trying to involve themselves in a story that started back in the days of Connery. But if you are a fan of the entire franchise spanning across all 24 films, maybe even some of Flemming's original novel, then Spectre is a must see.
__label__10 As a die hard fan of James Bond, I found this film to be simply nothing more than a classic. For any original James Bond fan, you will simply enjoy how the producers and Sam Mendes re-emerged the roots of James Bond. The roots of Spectre, Blofield and just the pure elements of James Bond that we all miss even from the gun barrel introduction. This film deserves higher ratings in my view. I don't want to spoil the film , but I am finally glad the writers brought back the roots of James Bond. A true fan nothing more nothing less. I don't know what else to expect from a James bond film and Spectre does just what I originally expected in a James Bond film. It opens a whole new extension to have many more films to come. The cast does a superb in their roles and many salutes to Christopher Waltz in his enemy role.
__label__10 Just came out of the theater and I'm literally blowing away! As a moviegoer and movie lover looking for a good entertaining is simply irresistible not to like this movie even just a little. But if your genre is the action or you are a Bond fan-boy (but a real fan-boy, the one who knows that Bond is a dark killer with a great sense f humor as well a troubled human being and not just a fantasy and silly spy in silly missions with a handful of gadgets) then SPECTRE will be a total feast for you.Sam Mendes and Daniel Craig give us another triumph after the polemic "Skyfall" and this time both have managed to get a perfect balance between that intimate psychology from the previous outing and the nostalgia from a classic Bond movie (with quality, not just passable) that hadn't had hit the theater in a very while. By that way we found ourselves in a very Bond centric movie (perhaps the only one in the whole franchise in which Craig is the absolute protagonist without being overshadowed even by the handsome villain) that explores and expands the character beyond the limits from the last third of Skyfall and a truly genuine adventure full of suspense and crazy twists to maintain the attention.Across many places (Rome, Tangiers, Austria and coming back to London for a classic suspenseful climax) we found Bond getting started in a personal mission out from the MI6 (although later he will enlist some of his confidence partners with him) that drives him from a enigmatic widow (Monica Bellucci steals the scene alongside Craig) to a beautiful and looking innocent Madeleine Swann (Léa Seydoux) until coming face to face to Franz Oberhauser (Christoph Waltz doing himself stills being fitted for the role and gives chills in his scenes with Craig).The story is bigger than Skyfall, Quantum and Casino Royale all together. And that's funny because this movie is really connected to all of them (another thing that makes me love Daniel Craig's Bond era). And marrying the credible word (political games, drones included) with the preposterous touch of any of the classic movies of Bond (Oberhauser, his hidden base, his plan) as well giving the Bond past a lot more of light and an effective closure by the end makes SPECTRE to succeed over any negative expectation and to give the audience the most entertaining outing coming from Craig and probably his best Bond yet (anyone knows if he's returning for another one even at another studio?). It's clearly a movie for those of you who are truly fans of Craig's unique run, but for all the haters too (because that lack of Bondish elements are there and most notably than ever).The humor is back (a drunken conversation with a rat makes the funniest and most hilarious moment) even at times that you couldn't imagine (the torture scene is intense, much better than the classic one in Casino Royale, but handed with dark laughs at some parts). The action is crazy and shot with class (the one shot that opens the movie is the most beautifully complex the franchise has given us so far) and the script goes along the way without going down at any moment or being lazy. It tries hard to touch a lot of plots into a big one to the final part of the film and that implies to focus on some parts more than others. But all the movie wants to be seen and experienced is explored and is a hell of a ride.SPECTRE is the most enjoyable Daniel Craig Bond film (and probably his farewell-with-a-bang), and the best Bond movie in recent memory. I did not exactly know what to expect for this installment after being put to sleep after the breathtaking Skyfall (so all the hype surrounding it) but not such a bold movie like this. If he (Craig) really leaves after this one, he will achieve something that Connery, Moore & Brosnan failed to do: say goodbye to the character on a stunning high. My personal ranking of Daniel Craig as James Bond: SPECTRE (1º) / Skyfall - Casino Royale (2º, both deserve it) / Quantum of Solace (3º).
__label__10 This review will be mostly spoiler free because despite all the problems that the production and the writing suffered this movie is a self conscious sleight of hands between all the things you think you know about the plot mixed with dark and funny surprises that pave their way through around the final half. And that's an incredible triumph over all the odds that must be experienced in bare bones. It's a terrific Bond film (more Bondish than Skyfall in a gloriously preposterous way)that has the equals in production values, score (Thomas Newman mixing Skyfall cues with new ones fits well), direction, performances and the brave narrative decisions taken in its script. But let me say this in advice: it may not exactly reach the same smart and complex, deeper and meaningful way achieved in the very personal Skyfall.The priceless opening sequence: Masterful. Eye popping. Five minutes (or so) in one tracking shot. Never seen before in the franchise. Maybe the best prologue EVER. This is how you start a movie in a truly rip- roaring fashion.Opening credits: It's a special affair to take part. Sam Smith tune has a little to compare with the epic scoop from Adele, but as a slow burning ballad is terrific for the movie (and very gorgeously designed for it, culminating in a very special opening titles). Is about a man who is an assassin but at the same a time a human being with his flaws (more or less in a way like Dench's M wants for Bond at their first face to face in Casino Royale) and his uncertain demise to find someone pure and up to himThe rest of the movie (If I'd reveal anything, I would deserve a ban from all the users of this site): it takes a little of time at some parts and it probably would affect in direct comparison to its predecessor. But this movie is able to live up the plot of Skyfall by deeper extravaganza and funnier build up even if it tries to rehash elements rather than add other news (wait a while in order really meet the villain, spy games in MI6 office, Bond has to operate in the shadows again). Taking its basis as a somewhat follow up (it starts as an extended epilogue indeed with a special message from someone of the past brought back from dead "for a few moments") it develops its own big story with style, patching the whole Craig's era so far and even paying homage to certain iconic moments of his run (there's a cracking torture scene this time too that may push the rating a bit too far) and the franchise overall (the fight in the train, a cat, iconic action sequence in the snow). Just when you think that the script is falling in a familiar territory, the film suddenly subverts your expectations using human drama (very effective for Bond and Oberhauser) instead the action or the fatigue. And the reveals make these characters even more likable and interesting. This smells like the truly 50th anniversary but 3 years later due to finding itself very encouraged to include references of the whole 007 story than the personal previous outing: It 's a thrilling and tragic Bond film, with best of Connery/Moore (and Lazenby) roots (gadgets included) but without becoming too campy or an absurd parody of itself. The performances (Fiennes, Whishaw, Harris, the twisted Andrew Scott, Monica Bellucci in her little amount of screen time "without mercy" and obviously the Bond "new" main interest: Léa Seydoux) are top notch as we could expect from Sam Mendes (even better in the direction). But Christoph Waltz (as insanely brilliant as we were looking for even if falls short to be as resonant as Silva and being closer to a more billed Le Chiffre), Dave Bautista (perfect, brutal, ruthless and iconic) and Daniel Craig (he nails it: operatic complex, dark, emotional and riveting-best Bond EVER) are the three best things that could ever happen to the movie in performances terms.From its orgasmic start in Mexico City to his hard hitting conclusion in London, Spectre is a gift for newcomers and classics Bond fans and a great action thriller with a heart. I don't know if it's the best Craig's Bond movie (Casino Royale is still a modern classic and Skyfall maybe fell in a better context and expectations in comparison with this one), but is a perfect entertaining and that was the same exciting affair happened to the two ones mentioned. While its deep psychological punch may not being so surprising nor original this time and the effectively reliable political urgency that made Skyfall so unique is left a little underweight with the M vs. C plot, Sam Mendes and the whole team can breathe relaxed. They have wrapped up their story in a new whole level and in a spectacular victory fashion by succeeding presenting a riveting story in terms of pure emotion and action. And if this is the real farewell to Daniel Craig's run he couldn't really ask for any better final outing, as well to thank to the producers and writers to have gifted him the greatest Bond era of all. He really leaves the tux (and the broken soul inside it) on a beautiful high. I'm even afraid if he agrees to come back (with almost the same team or another) even being my favorite Bond Because to surpass this is going to be a hell of a difficulty.
__label__10 The allure is definitely still there, and the movies continue to be fantastic entertainment. Isn't that what a movie is supposed to be? The reality is that Bond movies have been bringing people to the theaters for many decades now and probably will continue to do so. I don't put much credence in negative reviews or the suggestions that they should have done this or that, or this director is poor because and so on. The movie is very exciting, the locales are new and fantastic with neat tie ins to the other Daniel Craig movies in the series. If you like Bond movies, go see this, you will have great fun and that is what matters. I will get up tomorrow morning to go to my job at 3:00 in the morning, and hope that it isn't raining "ha!", and do my work, that is real life, this is a movie, and it was fantastic! Go, have a great time, if you can't or don't then you shouldn't have went in the first place, and above all, decide for yourself what you think, I suggest if you're going to complain, do it just before you leave for work, it might help you put things in perspective!!! Great movie, anxiously awaiting the next one!
__label__10 Spectre is an amazing film.Daniel Craig once more is a fantastic 007 in his fourth appearance.Sam Mendes has directed a thrilling film and deserves a huge amount of credit because his target was to better Skyfall and he has succeeded without doubt.Dr Madeleine Swann is a magnificent Bond girl as she is highly intelligent and very attractive.Dave Bautista is an extremely physical henchman and the train fight is brutal,bringing back memories of the train fight in From Russia With Love(1963).Franz Oberhauser who is portrayed by Christoph Waltz is unbelievable in the film and is no doubt my favorite Bond villain.It's very clever how Sam Mendes has tied together the previous three films in to the film.Also the films ties together memories from the earlier films which is brilliant.The beginning of the film is extremely entertaining and is also throughout.The countries that are used in the film are very exotic and fantastic.M,Q,Tanner & Moneypenny also deserve credit for their appearances.The theme song makes sense once you've seen the film.The beginning of the film in Mexico is very entertaining.The ending is also fantastic.I can't wait for the 25th Bond to come out in the future.In my opinion this is the best Bond film in history.I hope Daniel Craig will once more portray 007 and that Sam Mendes will direct it.A truly excellent film - 10/10.
__label__10 After eight years in seclusion, Batman resurfaces to face Bane, a mastermind bent on destroying Gotham and has ties to Bruce Wayne's past. Christopher Nolan's conclusion to his Dark Knight trilogy should be treated as a wrap up rather than a third installment. Despite many new characters being introduced, even their conflicts and motives are derived from events that occurred in the previous two films. Such an approach could be seen as a weakness, since the conflict could just end up being sort of a rematch rather than moving the story forward; however, Nolan's approach works terrificly. Over an hour is shot in stunning IMAX, but the film is more touching than it is intense and that's its best quality. Hardy steps in as the genius mercenary Bane, who is slightly bigger, slightly stronger and slightly smarter than Batman, thus making him a challenge best suited for the grand finale. The Joker works best as Batman's arch-nemesis since they are polar opposites, with The Joker standing for everything Batman stands against. Two-Face works best as Batman's most tragic enemy because Harvey Dent is very much like Bruce Wayne the only difference is: Dent copes with his tragedy through revenge rather than seeking justice as Wayne did. Bane works best as Batman's most challenging villain because of his physical and mental superiority—forget the Bane you saw in "BATMAN & ROBIN". Nolan carefully chose all his villains in the series wisely and executed them perfectly. Hardy had big shoes to fill following Ledger's posthumous Oscar winning performance; while Bane is no Joker, Hardy does a satisfying job and should not be compared to Ledger's performance as they are completely different roles. It is Michael Caine, however, that delivers the most memorable and touching performance of the entire film. A wonderful conclusion to a wonderful trilogy.**** (out of four)
__label__10 Not being a huge fan of superhero movies, I didn't have much expectations for Batman Begins. However viewing the 2005 Christopher Nolan production, I was pleasantly shocked. Then after my huge expectations for, "The Dark Knight", Christopher Nolan blew my expectations to the dust. Will the same happen with the 3rd and last film, "The Dark Knight Rises"? Quite simply, Yes! My big expectations were once again, blown away. What a production! This is a true cinematic experience, to behold. The movie exceeded my expectations in terms of action, and entertainment. The editing, sound, score, visuals, direction and action are all top notch. The film contains a fine cast of talented actors. Christian Bale, of course still makes is a great Batman. Michael Cain is fantastic, as he always is. He gives such a powerful performance, he really ought to be considered for an Oscar nomination. Tom Hardy as Bane is utterly terrifying, at times, and completely ominous. Anne Hathaway as Catwoman/Selina Kyle is a scene stealer. She is completely engrossing. Everyone is so great, the dynamic scenes between the actors are so well done, so well written, and so well directed. The Dark Knight Rises is is emotionally riveting and amazing to view.At a running time of almost 3 hours, the film never becomes dull, which is pretty impressive. The movie's action sequences are spectacularly well created and very intense. The dialogue between the character's are intelligent and highly believable. The movie's soundtrack is terrific and really exemplify's many of the movie's scenes. Extremely well editing and sound use really develop many of the movie's action scenes, so it's not just explosions and visuals like in many other movies. Nolan creates a grand, dirty, engrossing world, and his action sequences just hum. In conclusion, this film is a gorgeous reminder that great writing and direction can enhance any movie-going experience, even superhero movies, which are usually thought of as mindless entertainment. I am wholly satisfied with Christopher Nolan's vision and thank all who worked on this film for bringing such an intricate interpretation of its very famous literary source. I cannot recommend this film anymore than I have, I just have to say everyone and anyone should see it. 10/10"
__label__10 The Dark Knight Rises was an outstanding end to what has been the best trilogy I have ever seen.The film to me sums up what the batman stands for, the belief that someone can turn their leaf and become better, the belief that the fear that posses a person can be be destroyed or even help that person rise. what Christopher Nolan has given us in The Dark Knight Rises is not a lazy movie, it's a movie that makes the audience think because for me i had to watch the film many times until i have fully understand what has happened, and isn't that what makes a good movie when we have to watch it again and again and again.lets move on to the acting and the star man Christian Bale who again amazes me with his portrayal of Bruce Wayne, because even though we don't see a lot of the dark knight i personally am okay with that because i like seeing the real Bruce Wayne dealing with problems without the batman costume. another star man was Tom Hardy as Bane, "scary" yes, "intimidating" yes, "witty" yes and this list can go on. the thing that tipped it was that we can only see his eyes, to me he was only acting with his menacing eyes that just captivates any audience. Anne Hathaway as catwomen was a perfect cast as she brings the zing to the film, she's elegant and yet sexy at the same time, which was perfect casting. perfect casting all round including obviously Joseph Gordon-Levitt as Blake (robin).The Dark Knight Rises give audiences nearly three hours of pure excitement, for me i wanted it to continue for another three hours, the film was so good i had to watch the next day because it had every element of what makes a good batman film, such as the villain (bane) because he was the physical match for batman not like the other phenomenal batman films which was more psychotic villains. a good love story that doesn't bore the audience and a great ending. overall this was the ultimate ending to an ultimate trilogy which is a must watch. once again Christopher Nolan has done something special.
__label__10 Wow. That's all I can say. I was freaked out about this movie, because I loved the first two. Too often have I gotten into a series, then been horribly disappointed by the last entry (e.g. the hunger games. I hated the third book). That being said, even though I was nervous, I still had high expectations. And it exceeded those. The acting was excellent, consistently to the previous movies. The action was good. The story was great. The characters were diverse and interesting, and despite the longevity of this film, it wasn't too slow at all. This movie was a emotional roller coaster. The ending ( here's where the spoilers start) was extremely sad, but ironically, that was really good. One thing i was nervous about was that the ending would be a typical superhero movie ending: happy because the main bad guy dies or gets arrested or whatever. This wasn't that. Ask anyone who knows me well; I'm a very stoic guy, but this almost had me in tears. (Of course, it could have been the fact that this part came around at 3 AM and my mind wasn't working right.) Basically, an awesome film. My sole complaint was ( another spoiler here ) Bane's death. I'll give it this: it was realistic. I expected his death to be a long, drawn out sentimental thing, but in reality, his head got blown off in a flash. At first, I thought it was stupid, but it's sorta more realistic. Considering it's a superhero movie, anyway.If you're worried that this will ruin the series for you, don't be. I loved this movie. I don't know if it's as good as the Dark Knight, but if not, it's very, very close. Watch it. Do yourself a favor.
__label__10 After watching Dark Knight Rises I concluded that if there is anybody who can make kick-ass sequels its Nolan. The film contains everything, from brilliant acting, raw action, out of the world one-liners and amazing cinematography. It is already very hard to make a sequel for a film which was just good enough hit but to make a sequel for a film which will always be remembered as the best you have to do a very impeccable job and that is what is done in this movie. From the beginning to the end you have some very beautiful and emotional scenes like the mob fight between the police and the thugs, the rise of the Batman from the prison and the chants "Deshi Deshi Basura Basura" towards the end where Alfred and Bruce see each other for probably the last time and both know that he has made it.
__label__10 The Dark Knight Rises capped off what is probably the best comic book related trilogy of movies of all time. Earlier in the series you had Batman Begins and The Dark Knight with this just being the perfect way to finish off the series.Since the last movie it's been 7 years and Batman has been in seclusion since then. Christian Bale returns as Batman/Bruce Wayne. A new villain has emerged that being the menacing Bane played by the great Tom Hardy.The supporting cast has returning members like Morgan Freeman, Gary Oldman and Michael Caine in addition to new members like Joseph-Gordon Levitt, Marion Cotillard and Anne Hathaway.The movie has a running time of about 2 hours and 45 minutes but it doesn't seem like it at all, the movie flows like a 2 hour movie.
__label__10 Christopher Nolan has outdone himself with this one. At 3.30 in the morning, I was tired. Just getting out of it, I've never been so awake. Perhaps what set this film apart from his other films was that it had a genuine emotional heartbeat. I felt that this was a flaw of Nolan's other films - the vision of emotion was there, but it was hollow. In this I bought it. I felt it, hero and villain alike.Christian Bale was typically brilliant as Batman, and I felt that Bruce Wayne was more heavily embraced in this final installment. Bale added emotional depth to the character - a plot point that I think went astray in The Dark Knight - picking up from the development made in Batman Begins.Tom Hardy as Bane was quite simply, terrifying. No longer a dunderhead "enforcer", but one of the criminal masterminds behind "Gotham's Reckoning", coupled with a physical dominance strong enough to send shivers down your spine.Anne Hathaway as Selina Kyle defied my expectations. Hands up who was not entirely convinced that that girl from the Princess Diaries could handle an intensely physical role like Catwoman. But here I am, hugely impressed. She added immeasurably to the value of the film.Marion Cotillard fulfilled the role of Miranda Tate admirably, though I suspect this was the most underdeveloped character of the film - though after watching, I can see why.The unsung hero of The Dark Knight Rises is Michael Caine as Alfred. A heartfelt performance that helps drive the emotional content of the film, helping Nolan sell his most well-rounded film to date. Caine's performance in both presence and absence.Special mention goes to Joseph Gordon Levitt, who is consistently proving himself to be a big player in the Hollywood game. His role as officer Blake felt like there could've been more, but it may just have come all a bit much. It was a great performance, and Levitt sunk his teeth into role. If you can, go see this in IMAX. If any film was to sell the format to skeptics, The Dark Knight Rises would be IT. I'm happy Nolan stuck to his guns and shot in 2D. 3D would have been unnecessary. I suppose at this point, I have to turn my focus on Nolan. If he ever reads this... aspiring filmmaker to filmmaker, I've never been so envious, jealous in all my life. It's a film that leaves me floundering, wondering what I could possibly do to get anywhere near this ballpark. Well done. I think an Oscar Nomination is in order.From here, I'm not sure what to expect of the future. Does our imagination carry us forward, or do the studios? Time will tell.10/10
__label__10 The Dark Knight Rises is the third and final installment in director Christopher Nolan's Batman trilogy. The story takes places eight years after the events of the last film, eight years since Batman vanished into the night and assumed responsibility for the death of D.A. Harvey Dent in the hopes that it would benefit the greater good. But when a new villain threatens to destroy Gotham City and cannot be stopped by law enforcement alone, Bruce Wayne is forced to adorn the black armor once again. The film introduces several new characters: John Blake (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), a young police officer whose loyalty lies in doing what is right and not blindly following his superiors. Selina Kyle (Anne Hathaway), a cat burglar working for Bane in hopes of obtaining a device that will erase a person's criminal history and giving her the chance to start a new life. Miranda Tate (Marion Cotillard), who encourages Bruce Wayne to rejoin the rest of the world and continue his father's philanthropic work. Loyal butler, Alfred (Sir Michael Caine), Commissioner of the Gotham Police, James Gordon (Gary Oldman) and genius inventor, Lucius Fox (Morgan Freeman), also make a return to help Bruce Wayne become the Dark Knight once more. A new villain also enters the fray that is just as intelligent, resourceful and a better combatant than Batman (even breaking Batman's back at one point, depicting a classic scene from the comic series) – Bane (Tom Hardy), a terrorist portraying himself as a liberator of the people.Production staff really outdid themselves in making this film superb in every detail. In regards to the dramatic aspect, filming took place in several different cities across the world including New York, Pittsburgh, Los Angeles, London and Jodhpur. By amalgamating different cities, staff members helped to make his imagination of Gotham resemble the description of the city given in the comics. Costume specialists helped to give Bain the appearance of a lucha libre (masked wrestler), which coupled with his resourcefulness and intelligence helped to create the perfect villain. The Dark Knight Rises takes place in an apocalyptic time with nuclear warfare threatening to destroy Gotham City. Cinematography experts helped to reinforce this doomsday ambiance by having Bane and his henchmen blow up all the bridges that lead out to the city, trapping the entire police force underground and unleashing the hooligans from the city jail in a scene that resembles the "Storming of the Bastille". The federal government also abandons Gotham, leaving the people of Gotham to fight the battle on their own. Even scenes that do not take place in the city show the helplessness of the times. When Bruce Wayne is imprisoned in foreign jail, Bane decides to "torture his soul" by having him watch the events unfold in Gotham on a television set while he is trapped in a virtually inescapable prison. Director Christopher Nolan stated that this film would mark the end of his interpretation of the Batman trilogy. However, the end of the film leaves the viewer with a final surprise: John Blake's legal is revealed to be Robin John Blake, a reference to Batman's comic book sidekick, and inherits the Batcave after Batman's "demise". This leaves the possibility open to an additional installment in the Batman franchise, and with the critical and financial success of the series, it may be a smart move for Warner Brother's to make (copyright owner's to the series).The film also leaves the viewers with a final message: a hero can be anyone. Whether it is placing a reassuring grasp on the shoulders friend, letting him know that things will get better, or helping a stranger on the side of the road who is having car troubles. Nolan's final episode is an earnest attempt to give a deserving end to a much-loved series. With cool gadgets, fast-paced chase and fight scenes, complex characters, and a story line that will keep you on the edge of your seat, fans of the Batman series will not be disappointed.
__label__10 I had the honor of watching TDKR during a screening and was completely blown away! Christopher Nolan's third film in his Batman trilogy doesn't disappoint. The movie is incredibly well made, its huge production is quite breathtaking to view. This is a true cinematic experience, to behold. The movie exceeded my expectations in terms of action, and entertainment. The movie's score high-lites many of its incredible scenes, and at times, it takes your breath away.The film featured excellent performances, by all the cast. Christian Bale, as always is great as Batman. Anne Hathaway was completely engrossing, she became "Catwoman", just like Michele Pfeiffer did, although their interpretations were very different, both were equally effective. Tom Hardy was the main villain "Bane" completely shattered my expectations. One of the best superhero movie villains, I've ever seen. The terror caused by him, is completely believable and quite menacing. Marlion Cotilliard, Michael Cane, Gary Oldman, and others all did well in their respective roles. Now I know most will miss Heath Ledger as the Joker.(I know I do) I hope people don't compare Tom Hardy's performance to Heath Ledger's, its completely unfair and the two characters are very different. Just read the comics.The colossal size of the film is a spectacle to behold, but surprisingly you don't get lost with all the explosions and extravagant action scenes, like in other films,(AKA Transformers, or POTC.) If one were to gripe, and I suppose there will never be a film made that one cannot find a point at which to grip, it is painfully long running time here. I found myself more worried about the pain in my posterior than the emotional final minutes after almost 3 hours that I had spent in a cramped seat, but that's just how I am. However the ending is just fantastic, so emotional and bring the trilogy to a very satisfying end.Sorry if I'm being all fan-boyish and kissing this movie's behind, but I really admire it. It may not be among my personal favorites but generally this seems to be the movie event of this year. As a film though, this is amazing. A true lasting legacy in superhero story telling and summer-blockbusters.
__label__10 The best thing about this movie is how satisfying it is. It doesn't leave you frustrated or confused. You can't really complain that it didn't explore certain ideas or follow through. By deciding to have an official ending to this trilogy's story, the themes surrounding Batman are very fresh. We don't know where he'll end up. It's not the same old thing about whether he can continue to be Batman or not, which was already getting repetitive in Spider-man 2. The conclusions are not as important as the feelings they invoke as they come about. Nolan is especially good at capturing the complete tension of actually not knowing what will happen and deeply questioning what you *want* to happen and why.This movie is bigger than the previous two, far more ambitious. There are no obvious annoying weaknesses that usually come with films in general, especially blockbuster action movies. All of Nolan's movies have deep psychological themes and this takes those in another new direction. I thought Inception was hugely original and insightful about the way people think. That level of abstraction and depth is present in this film. Bane bursts into it, his reputation is quickly established. Nolan uses people's expectations and anticipation to the fullest. We are left to wonder about what has happened in the 8 years since the events of The Dark Knight. Why have the characters become the way they are now?In the latter half, it does seem like the movie is trying to pull off so many different plot points and connections, but they all work. The cast is very large and impressive. You don't see "good acting". You see fascinating characters. They're just playing their part in the grand story that's being crafted. There are many unfamiliar faces but they all have a strange, unique look to them. We often see a person's flaws and previous decisions coming back to haunt them. They find out the hard way what mistakes they have made. Where their limits are. Where they lose control.The score is almost tribal, very raw and energetic. You don't get much chance to pay attention to it but many parts of the movie are pounding with excitement. There are countless quotable lines and disturbing slices of dialogue. They cut deep. The Joker was a great character and this is a very different movie but the themes are just as dark, only perhaps indirectly. Underneath, it's very sinister. Writing and efficiency appear to be among Nolan's greatest strengths. The story has many layers that interweave and apparently they came in under budget.Perhaps the most important thing about Catwoman is that she's completely believable. When she beats up men, you don't roll your eyes. She's feminine and powerful in her own way. She fits into the world and we completely understand her motivations. She doesn't have a huge role but a very important one.I didn't find myself moved but maybe I'm too cynical. I was more affected psychologically. Curious about humanity and all the different sides of it you see in this movie. It goes to many extremes. I felt humbled by my complete lack of life experience. What do I know about anything? How could I possibly understand half of the characters? I haven't been through anything or achieved anything compared to most of them. Michael Caine gets a bigger role this time. He was always critical but this time he's very much the emotional core.I thought Christian Bale was overlooked in The Dark Knight especially. The movies hinge on him. Bruce Wayne's just a man but also incredibly inspirational. Bale's famous for completely committing to his roles and it pays off. Tom Hardy is impressive as Bane but I suppose that's no surprise. The rest of the leads are similarly awesome. There are many references to the earlier films. Very few questions are left unanswered. It's always nice when film-makers really think it through and make an actual decision and get all the details right.So anyway, I'll miss Batman (since the trilogy has ended) but couldn't have hoped for a better, more epic and sincere finale to his story.
__label__10 John Carter is an unjustly dismissed sci-fi masterpiece...grossly unjustified. What was wrong with it? Specifically, what was wrong? Pacing? It was intense!!! Coming from someone who uses this word sparingly, this movie was "EPIC". I am almost certain that time will enable objectivity, and objectivity will redeem it from the stinging taint slapped on it due to a predictably simplistic aversion to what is "mainstream" by film critics. If a studio other than Disney could have created the same film with half the budget it would have been heralded as a cinematic achievement within the sci-fi genre, but its budget was viewed as ostentatious and its production studio as childish, so it became "cool" to hate on it before anyone had even seen it.Who makes something and how much they pay to have it made has nothing to due with the quality of what is actually produced, it may be indicative of quality or lack thereof, but the final product speaks for itself. Reviews of John Carter tell us more about film critics than the critics told us about the film. It was practically perfect. "Incomprehensible plotting"??? They laid the groundwork for the presumed sequels by deliberately leaving a few questions unanswered, which I hope they still make and answer because I loved this first one! Mars was epic, and then in the end we are reminded that the story began on Earth and the film ends stronger than I could have hoped for! An excellent story masterfully told on screen.
__label__10 I put off watching this movie because I read an awful review of it. So my expectations were low. But let me tell you, i LOVED this movie! What fun! Just a super fun movie.I'm not going to spoil it for you, the less you know the better. I will tell you that John Carter was written by Edgar Rice Burroughs, the man who wrote Tarzan. But unlike Tarzan this is science fiction. If you liked Star Wars, if you liked Willow, if you like adventure and action movies then check this one out. I might even buy it, which I almost never do any more. This was SUCH a pleasant surprise.I just wish I had a 3D TV, because it comes in 3D also.
__label__10 I have so much to say about this movie but I guess I should start with what or who is John Carter.John Carter (Kitsch) is an American Civil War soldier who is transported to Mars. He first encounters the green skinned warlike nomads known as the Tharks and, due to his superhuman powers (Mars gravity and all that), quickly becomes embroiled in not only the political issues of the Tharks, but those of the red skinned, humanoid Martians as well. The humanoids control Mars through a series of city states with Zodanga annihilating everything in it's path. Helium is the last free state. Helium also has a beautiful and feisty Princess (Collins) and a political marriage to save all has been arranged. Then she meets our handsome hero.yep you guessed it. The two fall in love and are now fighting for not just what they love and believe in but who they love and believe in.This movie is based on the book Princess of Mars, the first in a series of 11 novels written by Edgar Rice Burroughs 100 years ago. They are also known as The Barsoom or John Carter of Mars series. A lot of what you have seen in these types of movies up until now has drawn, in some way, on this series of novels. Star Wars, Avatar, Babylon 5, Flash Gordon and even some Indiana Jones. I am sure the list is endless but Sci Fi is not my genre. When you watch John Carter, you will be able to pick the similarities immediately.If you are aware of this movie's existence, then you are probably aware of the negative attention it has garnered. I saw this movie over 2 weeks ago and have had to watch as people all over the internet trash it. They have laughed at Disney for spending $250 million on an obvious dud. They have said Disney has distanced itself from the movie before it's release. They have criticised everything from the trailers to the posters to the casting of 2 unknowns as the leads. Oh and they have done all this without having seen the movie! These people are best ignored and sent back to their mother's basements!! Now, I will say that Disney has done itself NO favours whatsoever with the posters and trailers for John Carter. This I will concede. But I have found the best trailer on You Tube and it was made by serious fans of the books thejohncarterfiles.Please, if you are going to watch a trailer for this movie, make it this one. It just gives you a much better idea of what the movie looks like.So what did I think? I LOVED it. I really, truly did. I wanted to see it because I had read so much about it over the last few years. Sci Fi may not be my thing but that doesn't mean I don't know what's going on in the land of movie making.This movie has all the blockbuster action we have come to expect from this genre. The CGI is spectacular. The Martian characters are fantastic. The stand out Martian is without a doubt Woola, a pet that adopts John Carter and is as ugly as he is adorable. An ugly slug like animal that will melt your heart. Trust me :) There is good vs evil. There is Martian vs Martain. There is human vs human. There is serious stuff. There is fun stuff. A stand out scene I just cannot resist mentioning.When Carter does arrive on Mars, his introduction to Tars Tarkas is absolutely hilarious. The mistake with his name becomes an ongoing gag throughout the movie and to great affect. Even our hero gives up, smiles and just shakes his head. Oh and yes, there is a very easy and believable reason why they all speak English.This movie is for everyone who likes Star Wars or Avatar. It's for everyone who ever wished they could go to Mars. It's for everyone who likes a love story between a handsome hero and beautiful, spirited Princess. It's for everyone who wants to see a great movie and escape, literally, to another world for 2 hours. It's for everyone who likes a simple Sci Fi story. It's for everyone who likes a layered story they can think on a little later. It's for little kids (although at over 2 hours running length it may just be a tad too long for our littlest movie goers) and it's for big kids.Ignore the critics and go see this movie. I think you will enjoy it. I saw it in 3D and I usually think 3D is a waste of money (sorry studios) but for this movie, fork out the extra $5 and see it in 3D.Mars never looked so good.
__label__10 In today's culture there's no place for fairy-tales. There's no place for simple but highly imaginative stories with a clear moral message. There's no respect for visionaries, no credit given to those who created fully-blown worlds out of nothing. Everything has to be 'dark', 'gritty', 'real' and morally ambiguous, even dubious. Or simply loud and dumb. There's no place for movies that embody the very thing cinema was invented for: the magical power of limitless imagination.From George Lucas's wonderful creations to Avatar, from very original tales like The Golden Compass or Stardust to John Carter, movies that do not fit in today's bitter world are bashed endlessly, or outright bomb at the box office, as John Carter did. However, if you, like me, refuse to bow to this lack of imagination, and liked the aforementioned movies, then you'll probably fall in love with John Carter, too. It is truly amazing. As my friend put it, 'It's the best Star Wars since Avatar'.(Note: I admit, I haven't read Edgar Rice Borroughs' Mars-series, but as far as I know, fans of the novels were pleased with the movie adaptation, as well.)
__label__10 Star Wars, Avatar, and John Carter. That's the cinema progression although by now everyone knows that the John Carter books came first and inspired both Lucas and Cameron. As a devotee of the books -- I appreciated Star Wars and Avatar, but neither produced the level of excitement and reader/viewer loyalty that Edgar Rice Burroughs did with his vivid and unforgettable tales of John Carter, Dejah Thoris, and Barsoom.So what has Andrew Stanton given us?Anwer: A gem that shines bright and true with a light all its own. Stanton has taken the grandmaster's story but he's made it his own and it's fresh and emotionally stirring in ways that are unexpected and make you want to see it a second time, and soon. The gem is not without a few rough edges -- but the core brilliance is unmistakable and undeniable.Stanton is a subtle and sophisticated storyteller with a Pixarian's understanding of how to build characters that stay with you. Whereas Cameron in Avatar was content to extract the simple essence of the Burroughsian pulp narrative and just "go with it", Stanton keeps enough of that to keep the material recognizable but constructs characters that, in deft and certain strokes, emerge as fully realized beings who engage us and draw us in to their stories in ways that exceed what his predecessors Burroughs, Lucas, and Cameron were able to do. The result is a richer, character driven experience that transcends the dear sweet old pulpy fiber on which it is based and becomes something grander, richer, and more satisfying.A word about how the film differs from what you're seeing in trailers: The promotion promises spectacle and action and there is plenty of that; but the promotion also suggests that the film will be a kind of childishly simple, woodenly executed mashup of questionable seriousness featuring awkward performances and cartoonish characterization while the film itself is almost the inverse of that--a thoughtful, finely tune spectacle that is a feast of imaginative transport and whose few flaws flow from the fact that it's a three hour epic that plays in two hours and twelve minutes.Taylor Kitsch is convincing and natural and I never thought I'd be saying that, based on the promotion. Lynn Collins is luminous and elevates fully to the level of the "incomparable" Princess of Helium -- genuinely beautiful and strong of will and heart. Willem Dafoe as Tars Tarkas and Samantha Morton as Sola; Mark Strong as the delicious villain Matai Shang -- the cast is without exception strong. The special effects are state o the art and seamless -- and the music by Michael Giachinno deserves special mention: haunting, unique, and uniquely suited to the material, and the editing by Eric Zumbrunnen seamlessly supports the narrative.The "flaws" amount to quibbles: The film feels lean and compact at 2 hours and 12 minutes and feels as if it could benefit greatly from 10 additional minutes which could have been used profitably to better set up the moment when John Carter and Dejah Thoris "close the deal" on their love, and clarify some story points that are there -- but could be highlighted more. Another beat of John Carter's life among the Tharks, implying a passage of time, would cause John Carter's later knowledge of the Tharks and their culture to make more sense (as it is now he seems to pick it up in a matter of days and as audience we never see where that knowledge comes from ). Another beat of John Carter absorbing the new world he finds himself in, and implicitly comparing it to what he left behind, would be welcome and would strengthen the impact we would feel when he makes that choice. But these minor points should not distract for the overall brilliance with which Stanton has executed a challenging assignment.This is a film that bears watching more than once, and is complex and nuanced enough that subsequent viewings will no doubt reveal new treasures and clarify the minor rough edges -- yet it is also compelling and moving on an immersive first viewing in the theater. Perhaps the best indication of that is the fact that, in spite of my supposed knowledge of and sensitivity to film structure -- I was taken by surprise when it ended and was in no way ready for it to end. Could the full two hours have gone by that fast? How? And as I sit here writing about it the next morning, if there were an opportunity to go back and see it again tonight, I would do so without hesitation and, quibbles aside, that's a simple but ultimately profound recommendation.A final thought: Like everyone, I've got plenty of things going on in my life and my world, distracting things, things that makes me worry, things that drag my mind out of a movie when I'm watching it and back into my world. Not one little tiny bit of that intruded into this movie. I was transported and when it was over I couldn't believe that was it -- I thought there was at least another 45 minutes owed to the audience. On a visceral level, without trying to overthink it -- that says a lot about what Andrew Stanton has accomplished, building on the foundation of the grandmaster Edgar Rice Burroughs.
__label__10 Guys, seriously I think it's time for me to jump to these groups of people reviewing a movie and rating it after it ends, cause people don't have taste or they are simple haters. I give a 10/10.The movie is meant to surprise you the whole time. You just wonder what'll happen along the way. You get the feeling someone is reading you a fairy tail and you don't want to go to sleep until you get the story. Agony, Frustration, Despair, brilliant soundtrack, Very nice Visual Effects part from some CGI that looked a bit fake. I recommend to watch it in HD.Originality in story progression is one of the things I would say this movie has. And I really can't say that for many movies of 2012 or older. Watch it with Friends, or Family. It was a very enjoyable movie.
__label__10 John Carter is one of the most underestimated movies of all time.I watched it many times and I really enjoy it. The action, history, scenarios, etc... everything is great.It definitely deserves a sequel.
__label__10 From start to finish it's a good action/comedy.. I watched this in cinema.. was a full house.. everyone was buzzing and laughing as they left.. didn't hear a single negative comment. Box office flop? Only the goofs will tell you that! For me, it's such a good movie, i've bought it on Blue Ray. It'll sit along side great films and collections ranging from Battlestar Galatica to Stargate to The new episodes of star wars and Dune..Put aside the retentive "but the moons don't go right.." and some minor sexist attire and attitudes, it's laughable that anyone would object to whats there. It's a great film, that you can sit down and watch time and time again.
__label__10 To sum it up, I never had even heard of Edgar Rice Burroughs even though I read a lot of science fiction..., nor did I expect anything from this film before going to it... I hadn't even watched its trailer. I chose to go to it only because I had seen all the other films showing that they were showing on the day.Result? I am very glad that I accidentally watched it! It's one of those films... though maybe not the best of the best of the best and it might lack some things / bells and whistles that some might want.. but it is still one of those films that come out once in a while, which one can watch over and over again..It will almost certainly take its place in my film collection..
__label__10 There are few movies I walked out of the theater and wanted to go back in. John Carter was definitely one of those movies. It was an easy movie to quickly get in to. The characters felt real, John Carter was a great protagonist with an incredibly sad back-story, and the dog was surprisingly adorable. Also, I never thought I would feel human emotions for big green aliens. Everything; action, special effects, acting, writing, story, music; was seamed together seamlessly. I went in expecting a good movie and received a masterpiece. Definitely made it into my top ten movies of all time. Everyone should see this movie. This is not a film to pass up.
__label__10 This film was so good that I joined IMDb just to say it is amazing!As big budget films go this one takes the cake, great story line, great action, great heart melting moments!I heard that this got bad reviews.... well in my opinion its better than the avengers and avatar combined! 10/10 best film to fail at the box office since Fight Club!!!Need I say more? Well I plan on watching it at least 10 more times!!!I now plan to read all the books this was based on, as i haven't felt this excited about a film since well I don't know.I am still in shock at how kick ass this film was... Even the ending was great.Now what else do I need to do to get you to go see this film....?
__label__10 The previews looks good but the reviews came in shaky. Still the girls and I wanted to see John Carter. I am so very glad that we did. This was an excellent show! Engaging, moving, exciting, moral lesson and clean family enjoyment. What the movies have been missing for so long. As the scenes rolled by you were reminded of so many of your favorite shows (especially for SciFi fans like this family). You just can't get enough. I hope there are many more parts like Star Wars, Pirates of the Caribbean and Harry Potty. A Part 2 would not be enough. This is movie set up to live on for years to come. The story draws you in and is highly addictive. Just finished watching and already I want more.
__label__10 By my standards, "must-see" films are getting to be rather rare. This one is by all means a MUST-SEE for everyone who loves science fiction and/or super heroes! Long before Superman, there was John Carter. Many have very likely forgotten what a resourceful and imaginative writer Edgar Rice Burroughs was. Most people only know he authored the original TARZAN. The movie JOHN CARTER is based on Burroughs' novel, A PRINCESS OF MARS, and his 1911 vision of an advanced civilization on Mars is truly astonishing. Upon seeing this, the first question you will likely ask is, "How is it no one has filmed this fantastic, mind-blowing, eye-popping, compelling sci-fi adventure saga before?" Well, there have been a few faint attempts but the true realization of John Carter's magnificent adventures waited patiently for the masterful CGI wizardry of director Andrew Stanton and the 2012 resources of Disney/Pixar. Amazingly, Mr. Stanton shot this heavily CGI-based epic on film! According to the director, he did so simply to see what it was like to make a movie like this on film before film is gone. The experience apparently has made him a fan of the classic motion picture medium and I imagine we will hear more from him on why. Of course I'm not going to give anything away. Suffice it to say that, thankfully, JOHN CARTER is a complete film experience: a suspenseful, dazzling story -- efficiently and superbly told -- with dramatic and unforgettable visuals -- and compelling, moving performances. Lynn Collins is particularly brilliant and beguiling as the exotic and dynamic Martian princess. Throughout the film the detail is extraordinary and the pacing is right on the mark, relentlessly drawing you forward into the wonder of this newly discovered, challenging, turbulent world. What a magnificent adventure saga! Let's put it this way: if you liked Sinbad, you will LOVE John Carter. Thanks to a sure-handed director, an inspired cast, and state of the art technical people, it's a fulfilling experience that I predict will remain with you always -- especially if you are among the young! JOHN CARTER is the ultimate exotic adventure; a masterpiece of cinematic action and pacing.
__label__10 This was an incredible film!!! I don't understand how this film can turn out to be a budget disaster. I saw it last week and was really overwhelmed. It's one of the best in his genre.The visuals are stunning, Andrew Stanton really proves what he's worth. And Taylor Kitsch puts down a brilliant performance. He gives so much depth to John Carter. He has a great flair that makes young and old believe his character. It's a brilliant adaptation of the Rice Burrough's books and I can't wait to see the sequel. Critics say it's a lame story but that is absolutely wrong. It has an intriguing plot with a very interesting storyline. A visual spectacle with an amazing story behind it and some pretty awesome actors.
__label__10 I am fan of Spider - Man since my whole childhood, i been watching series of the cartoons. The third installment of Spider - Man franchise is darker than the first two movies were but still dose not ruined and dose get a job don well!! Before i start writing review about this movie , i wanna talk about the new movie The Amazing Spider-Man (2012) the new movie of Spider - Man is awfully horrible boring and wrong. It truly disappointed me. I have been watching the new movie on DVD than i went watching Spider - Man 3 on DVD this movie i am writing a review about it, i only saw this movie once and the first time i didn't give it 10 stars i was actually bored by this film and disappointed about Harry as the villain and that he died Marry Jane broke up with Peter and he become dark but the movie was still enjoyable after i saw how awful badly the new spider - man is i went watching this movie and you know what? It was million times better than the new amazing Spider - crap was. Sam Raimi's trilogy was much much better than Marc Webb's movie is, Webb's movie is awful. I watched the first original movie Spider - Man back in 2003 when my mom bought me original video cassette that was before DVDs and Blu Rays were on this world and i absolutely loved it. When in 2004 was released Spider - Man 2 i bought video cassette right away. Sequel to this movie was supremely good, but it did not compare to the first movie. Then after my huge expectations for, "Spider - Man 3", Sam Raimi blew my expectations to the dust. Will the same happen with the 3rd and last film, "Spider - Man 3"? Quite simply, Yes! In 2005 when i hear about the third and last movie of Spider - Man that they where shooting i knew that Tobey Maguire had problems in his personal life and how media was judging him, i step on his side right away and this movie did made an awesome job in 2007. About The Amazing Spider-Man (2012) that movie was really shocking and completely different than Sam Raimi's trilogy was. The only good thing in that movie was The Lizard aka Dr. Curt Connors but the whole movie was really true disappointment and insult for every true Spider - Man fan. A lot of people were criticizing and judging this movie but in my opinion this movie is well made. Think before you judge an threw away a gold of movie and see the new movie and you will see the difference. This movie is a million times much better.Andrew Garfield really isn't for the role of Peter Parker as Spider - Man i hear that they are planing new movie another sequel for The Amazing Spider-Man? Please god no! The third and last movie of Sam Raimi's trilogy is an epic conclusion to an amazing awesome super hero. I will rather watch this movie than the new spider - crap movie. I am not buying the new movie no thank you. I watch awhile ago Spider - Man 2 and it was so great movie i really loved it. Today i order it Spider - Man 1 and 3 original DVD it will come tomorrow i don't have these two movies on DVD. I am also giving a higher rank for this movie than the new one. Just one thing how come this movie got only 6.3 stars while the new movie got 7? that make no sense to me. A great ride from Sam Raimi thank you! 10 out of 10 Stars!The film contains a fine cast of talented actors. Tobey Maguire, of course still makes as a great Spider - Man . James Franco is fantastic, as he always is. He gives such a powerful performance, he really ought to be considered for an Oscar nomination.Topher Grace as Venom/Eddie Brock is utterly terrifying, at times, and completely ominous.. Kirsten Dunst as Mary Jane Watson is a scene stealer. She is completely engrossing and awesome. Thomas Haden Church as Sandman/Flint Marko is terrific. Bryce Dallas Howard as Gwen Stacy is brilliant much, much better than Emma Stone is. Actress Bryce is also beautiful,pretty hot. At last and least Rosemary Harris as aunt May Parker was terrific and fabulous outstanding in her performance. Sally Field got a poor script and she barely talks in Amazing Spider - Man. Everyone is so great, the dynamic scenes between the actors and actresses are so well done, so well written, and so well directed. Spider - Man 3 is emotionally riveting and amazing to view.In conclusion, this film is a gorgeous reminder that great writing and direction can enhance any movie-going experience, even superhero movies, which are usually thought of as mindless entertainment. 10/10
__label__10 Even though there is more romance in Spider man 3 it's equaled out with the action that keeps you on the edge of your seat. MaryJane is a little betrayed by Peter Parker, feeling alone and probably envying the new publcity that spidey was getting falls into the arms of Spider Man's rival the New Green Goblin. Peter now finally comes to terms with being spider-man and knowing that he has a dark side too. Peter find himself asking the New Green Goblin for help fighting the Sandman and Venom. It comes to a startling end when the new green goblin comes to the rescue of both of his friends.Overall Topher Grace and James Franco are the two hottest guys in the movie. If you don't like the action these two guys are diffently worth watching on screen.
__label__10 The movie was very good..just as good as 2 was...not better..but just as good.. even though there were some corny lines..it doesn't mean the enteire movie is bad...damn..I don't think I have contained any spoilers..but just know the following..if the movie was sentimental..like..when the characters were crying..well.they had a good reason to cry..Peters best friend dies...and he cries...and the audience laughs at him..? I was like..wtf!!!...The whole point is..if you had watched the movie..and was really paying attention..this movie was kindoff like a 1stparter..and spiderman 4 would be the 2nd parter..When the movie ended..I was like...the movie was good...but it just didn't end for me..I was just relieved that everything turned out good and back to normal..because the movie and story itself were very very dark concerning peter after he was being possessed by the symbiote by some level...And if you had watched the cartoons..and even read a couple of comics on this story..you just had to know..that a sequel to this..just had to come.. The movie now...is incomplete..Allot of people have been thinking like the movie was crap..and not good...just bad...because it was incomplete while they were thinking that this was the story itself...I think that spiderman 3 is just an unfinished story....which continues in spiderman 4...Tobey Maguire iss now the oficial real-live image of peter parker..M.J. lives through Kirsten dunst..and the rest of the supporting cast was just what was needed..and they did better. spiderman 3 will....well...it is an over-hyped film..that just couldn't do better than spiderman 2..because the audience wants to see better and better every time a sequel comes out.. It was a good movie..recommended to anyone..if there are some haters..its they're opinion.. I just find everything in this movie..
__label__10 I saw the midnight showing and was blown away not only by the special effects, but also by the acting and the story. Each movie in this series is better than the last, putting this in the league of trilogies such as Star Wars (the originals) and Back to the Future.How the movie stands on its own:Plotwise-The primary plot is Peter Parker struggling with the arrogant and aggressive desires given to him by the alien being that has created his notorious "black suit". There are numerous subplots in the movie (Peter's ego affecting his relationship with MJ, the discovery that the Sandman was his Uncle's real killer, Harry blaming him for the death of his father, and a rival reporter in Eddie Brock, plus romantic attention from Gwen Stacey), but all of these either cause him to accept the alien's powers, or are aggravated by his use of the black suit, so they are all tied in nicely to the main plot.Characters-Maguire is able to portray Peter's darker side while keeping his "nerdy" core. Dunst is great at portraying a jealous MJ. Franco is fantastic at being an obsessive, vengeful Harry. The versions of the Sandman and Venom portrayed by Thomas Hayden Church and Topher Grace, respectively, are different from the comic versions, I am told, but within the scope of the movie, they are well done, especially considering the lack of screen time they each get. Here, the Sandman is a sad, reluctant villain who stoops to crime to get money to find a cure for his daughter, and Eddie Brock/Venom is a cocky, devious "evil twin nerd" version of Peter Parker. Bruce Campbell as a French host is hilarious. The actress who played Gwen Stacey doesn't get as big of a part as she deserves, but she works with what she has. Setting-New York City, so it's obviously good. Also loved the American Flag in the background before the final battle-USA! USA!Dialogue-Funny moments such as J. Jonah Jameson being buzzed to take his blood pressure medication more than make up for cheesy lines said during a break-up scene on a bridge in a park.Flaws: -The villains, since there are three of them, aren't as well developed as they are in the first two movies. In particular, Venom needed more screen time (and a MUCH closer relationship to Gwen) to give him more of a motive for hating Spiderman. This is a shame, considering how well Doc Oc was characterized in the second movie. -Some of the emotional moments (i.e. the bridge break-up) are overacted, making them somewhat cheesy. -MAJOR SPOILER: Harry changes sides way too quickly after a less-than-minor character tells him the truth about what happened to his father. END OF SPOILER.The good elements of this movie far outweigh the bad elements, and it is honestly the best movie I have seen in a long time. Not only is it a great story, but it also has a brilliant theme of how liberating forgiveness is and how poisoning revenge is in contrast. There are rumors of a fourth movie coming out; all I have to say is, if Sam Raimi, Maguire, Dunst, and other members of the original cast are still in it, I am SO there!
__label__10 I saw this movie at the 12 O'Clock showing and was pinned in my seat from 12:01 to the credits. I went to school ranting and raving about how excellent this film was and was so excited to see it again with the rest of my family. Monday, to my dismay, i was greeted with very negative thoughts on this movie. some even said that it was the worst movie that they have seen in a long time. this angered me because frankly, these people were judging the movie completely wrong.Most people walked in and expected a beat em up movie with back to back spidey fighting and action galore but instead were greeted with a realistic drama between Peter Parker and MJ and lessons in morals and friendship and forgiveness. to me, this is what made this movie so excellent. Here you have a man with so much power he could be rich and famous but instead, he gives a vast majority of his time protecting people who in many cases don't even appreciate his efforts.when things finally start going good for him he is hit with relationship troubles, friends turning their backs on him, and super villains to boot. when i saw how he handled things i couldn't help but feel that it was a totally realistic response to what he was given. it made me relate to the character so much more.this movie made me hurt when he hurt, cry when he cried, and cheer when he triumphed. i can honestly say that i loved this film and would recommend it to everyone. keep in mind though that spider-man is nothing without the man behind the mask and he fights with his heart. without a heart, superheroes are nothing.
__label__10 Life for Peter Parker in the city of New York has never been better. His web-slinging alter-ego, Spider-Man, is the hero of millions; his "day job" at the Daily Bugle is going strong. His college grades are in top form, and to top it all off, he and the lovely Mary-Jane Watson are madly in love with each other. For once in his life, Peter has very little to worry about...until a strange, small object crashes into Central Park, unleashing a living black ooze that eventually...well, more on that later.On the other side of town, Flint Marko sneaks into his sleeping daughter's bedroom through an open window. Before leaving, he has a few words with his estranged wife about their child, and then leaves, lamenting, "I'm not a bad person. I've just had bad luck." The same night, Peter stops by Aunt May's apartment to tell her of his plans to marry MJ. May shares a heartfelt story about her late husband Ben, and how he proposed to her 50 years prior. Peter is on his trusty moped, when out of nowhere Harry Osborn swoops him into the sky for a battle-royale that ends with Peter sliced a few times, and Harry in a severe coma. A few days later, he awakes with very little of his recent memories, prompting some heartfelt scenes that touch on what Harry's life might have been, had his father not been so neglectful.As for Mary-Jane...well, her job at a Broadway show is cut off, and due to his crime patrols, Peter hasn't exactly been the most attentive guy on the planet. Neglected, confused, and borderline hopeless, MJ's mood only gets worse when, at a special ceremony, Spidey is given the key to the city, and gets an upside-down kiss from blonde bombshell Gwen Stacy! Jealous and frustrated, she is shattered when Peter takes her for a romantic dinner, and Gwen shows up to say "hi". MJ walks out, blind to Peter's plan of a (now-botched) wedding proposal.Meanwhile, Harry is recovering at home from his stay in the hospital, when his memories return in a flood of imagery, restoring his desire for vengeance against Peter. He blackmails MJ into dumping Peter, telling her she'll die if she refuses. And, the police inform Peter and Aunt May that Uncle Ben was not killed by a random carjacker. Instead, their new suspect is none other than Flint Marko, who falls into a crater after escaping a chase, only to become trapped in a nuclear experiment that transforms him into a being made entirely of living sand.And as for that black ooze, it bonds itself with Peter's costume while he sleeps. Peter's mind slowly crumbles under this symbiotic influence, going so far that he retaliates against everyone. A fight with Marko leaves Peter believing him dead after opening a floodgate. Harry and Peter have a fistfight inside the Osborn mansion, leaving Harry disfigured by his own pumpkin bomb. News rival Eddie Brock's work is revealed to be a fraud, causing J. Jonah Jameson to publicly fire him. And Peter even woos Gwen Stacy, right in front of Mary-Jane! All these events come to a devastating head when, during a barfight, Peter forcefully knocks Mary-Jane to the floor. Faced with all the consequences of his actions, Peter flees to a cathedral, where the sound of the tolling bells causes the symbiote to weaken, and Peter rips it away from his body......where it drips down through the rafters, and lands on a grieving, bitter, and angry Eddie Brock. Consumed by the evil entity's power, Brock is transformed into the psychotic creature known only as Venom. Tracking down the Sandman, Venom arranges a team-up to take down the heroic wall-crawler, and kidnaps Mary-Jane to use as bait. Soon, Peter swings to the rescue, once again clad in his familiar red-and-blues. But the fight is too much for even him, and as the "Sandman" prepares for a death-blow, Harry appears, having been told the truth behind his evil father's demise. Thus, its two against two across the skies and down the streets of New York. In the end...well, let's just say many lessons are learned, about love, duty, and yes, even responsibility. When all is said and done, Peter somberly approaches MJ, with one sentiment on his mind...
__label__10 When you venture out to see a movie in the theatre, you hope to be engaged and have your appetite for entertainment met. You congregate with fellow audience members in the darkness and ideally will leave with a satisfied feeling that only a very good movie can give. The third installment of the Spider-Man franchise did just that for me. The film swung into theatres on May 4th and has broken box office records, making $59.3 million it's opening day alone! SPIDER-MAN 3 is something of a marvel, forcefully shaking off the "sequel law" which dictates that each sequel must inevitably get worse and worse, declining in quality and really being just a cheap facsimile of the sharp original movie. The Spiderman trilogy proves once again (i.e. the Indiana Jones trilogy) that the sequel rule can be broken on rare occasion. In case you have not caught the first two Spider-Man films or need some refreshment on the plot, the starting of this film brings you from the beginning of the first Spider-Man right to where the last one left off with a cool montage of clips placed in the opening credits. Peter Parker (Tobey Maguire) and Mary Jane Watson (Kirsten Dunst) are getting serious in their relationship. But while Spider-Man's popularity in the city is at an all time high, Mary Jane has been let go from her Broadway debut after just one critically bashed performance. Peter is so engrossed in the people's adulation of his alter ego Spider-Man and fails to be a shoulder for MJ to lean on. Peter's former friend, the wealthy Harry Osborn (James Franco), is plotting his revenge for the death of his father who he believes died at the hands of Spider-Man. Flint Marko (Thomas Haden Church) is an escaped convict who falls into a particle accelerator while on the run, transforming him into a shape shifting sand-man. He wreaks havoc on the city, robbing banks and armored vehicles. At the Daily Bugle where Peter works we have Eddie Brock (Topher Grace), a hotshot freelance photographer who has just been hired. In competing with Peter for the best photos of Spider-Man he cheats by Photoshopping Spidey into a bank break-in. Yet still, there are more problems for Spidey: one night black alien liquid oozes from a crashed meteorite, and attaches itself to Peter while he sleeps. This gooey creature uses him as a host, making him aggressive and causing a downward spiral into arrogance and selfish behavior. As Spider-Man/Peter Parker confronts the darkness in himself, he must overcome the need for revenge which has consumed him after some recent disturbing facts have come to light. I will not give anything away, but those twists affect core plot points as far back as the first Spider-Man movie! Writer/director Sam Raimi weaves it all into a cohesive and entertaining 2 hours and 20 minutes. There could be a lot of conflict in such a loaded storyline, but it is handled deftly by Sam Raimi, and he leaves you at the end wanting more. He makes us feel empathy for the Sandman who is out getting money for his sick daughter, and Harry who lost his father. The first Spider-Man was extremely "comic-book", really just a visual thrill ride, while the second one made an effort at having deeper character development in its villains and good guys. The third one leaps astronomically far ahead of the previous two on all levels, making it a strong early contender for the summer's best blockbuster. There is a brief cameo by the co-creator of Spider-man Stan Lee as well, midway through the movie, so watch for that. This movie is the most expensive film ever made in history, costing $258 million dollars! So watch a rare product in today's Hollywood: an enormously budgeted movie that has thrilling special effects paired with a compelling and thought provoking storyline.
__label__10 OK, I'm Gonna start off by saying that this is my first review on the site, because after seeing "Spider Man 3" I felt the urge to fully Analise it:Story- 10/10 The Story picks up from where it ended, leading the characters from the first two films onward to realizing their Comic- Book Potential (Especially Spidey Himself- Notice the "Key-to-the city" gig when he poses... That's Definitely the Spidey we all know) and placing the new characters in a very fitting way... it all goes as it should considering the story.Characters- 10/10 This is one of the things I liked most about this film- the FANTASTIC characters and how they develop. every character has a story of it's own and all of them are interesting, compelling and exciting in such a way that I have never seen in a Comic- Flick Since "Batman Begins". The best were Definitely Flint Marko/Sandman and Eddie Brock Jr./Venom. The first with his sad and Tragic persona and the other with his frustration and thirst for vengeance... both were very vital for this film and came through all the way.Acting- 7/10 This is NOT "Gone with the Wind", folks! It's an action/ comics flick so obviously we won't see any Oscar- worthy performances... when Peter started crying on Harry's dead body, THE ENTIRE THEATER BURSTED WITH LAUGHTER!!! However, here once again "the rescue" came from the villains: Topher Grace was absolutely Awesome as both Eddie Brock and Venom; he gave a powerful and very believable performance, and Thomas Haden Church did a TERRIFIC job portraying the Sandman (And the funny part is: I don't even like "Sandman" OR Thomas Haden Church! how crazy is THAT?)Action sequences- 10/10 Not A LOT of it but when there is some... its just beautiful... every action sequence is better then the previous one, and altogether you get some of the most unforgettable action- sequences both in Spidey history and comic- flicks history..Humor- 7/10 I can't remember the last time I laughed so hard in an Action- flick... as a matter of fact... I NEVER *EVER* LAUGHD SO HARD IN AN ACTION FLICK BEFORE! this film has parts that are absolutely hilarious, and most of them belongs to J.K Simmons's as J.J Jameson! (also I would like to add: the rumors are true: Bruce Campbell's cameo= PURE GOLD) but one of the main problems is that it didn't know when to stop and I found myself nearly crying when Peter started dance- walking in the streets, hitting on chicks... I just wanted it to stop! and don't even get me started on that Emo- crap!)Visual/ Special Effects- *11*/10 Yeah, you heard me! 11 out of 10!! 11!! 250,000,000 $!!! you can CLEARLY see where all the money went. Visually speaking, this is the best Film of 2007! NO JOKE!and finally... the most important:Staying true to the Comic- book's Spirit- 10/10 I can't even describe it with words... you will understand when you see it, trust me.If you are a true "Spider Man" Fan, go see it NOW! I guarantee you will NOT be disappointed.
__label__10 I really do feel sorry for those that enjoyed the first two Spiderman films, but hated this one. I really enjoyed it, and for those of us who did, it keeps going or completes the story of Spiderman. Was it as good as the first? Yes, maybe better. Was it as good as the second? Nope, and I truly believe that may be why some do not care for it as much.Don't get me wrong it has its problems. It did have a feeling of having too much crammed into one film, and the scene with Osborn's butler telling him that his father killed himself was the low point. Overall though the film was fun, had awesome effects, great bad guys, cool fight scenes, and most importantly it kept the focus of the film on Peter Parker/Spiderman. Not on Venom, which some of those that absolutely think the film sucks actually wanted.Yes I know Venom has a huge following, but it is not a film about him. All Spiderman films have kept the villains as antagonists that keep the film going, nothing more, and that is how it should have been. Through out all three films the main story is about PP and MJ like it or not.Overall I think that Spiderman 3 is a great addition to the Spiderman films. The movie explores the "dark" things that people do to each other, and the ability to forgive those that do. I also liked the low key ending, which was different then the first two. It was subtle and suited the overall theme of the film. It also showed the finality of the series, while at the same time leaving room for a possible sequel. Once again sorry to those who hated it, because for those that loved it we now have the best comic book trilogy ever put on film.
__label__10 This Spidey Trilogy is actually the only movies which make me feel happy when the show is over. They "clean" my mind and I feel fresh again.With those characters, it is a reunion with 27 years friends (I am 32 years old), who were always here in my good and bad times and who inspire me for great values (thanks to the talent of numerous writers & artists). It is also New-York, a great old city, which suffers a lot in 2001 but keeps on having the "pulse" Because the "spirit" of the work is all around, it is a sensational comics adaptation, but in addition, the movies medium brings all the pleasure to a new level ! Surprisingly, the Spidey parts are amazing: they really add something to the comics. The narrow space between buildings, the sense of up/down, swing are really accurate.The difficult life of Peter Parker isn't forgotten: Sure, for this part, the Spidey universe is brought intensely: Sandman, the black suit, Venom, the Stacy family, the "burglar". While the events are rather independent in the comics, now, all the story lines are tangled together, so the die-hard fans may be deceived, but who cares? They got only 150 minutes to tell decennials of events! So, even if the black suit doesn't create clothes by mind, the dark side effect is a imaginative addition to the classic tale. It is a great valuable symbol for teenagers! Finally, behind all this money, all those fights, you can leave with a philosophy message, which labeled "authors" movies fail a lot of times. Spidey speaks about choice, and for me, this word couldn't come more in time. This is the same question I am running after (see my previous review of "The Reaping" for a proof"), and it's a great gift for me to having Spidey help me in that sense! For the few who ask the meaning of life and look for their role, the good choice is the hardest one, because you know it doesn't serve your own selfish needs. "Enough said!"
__label__10 I will start by saying that I am a 62 year old grandfather of three (9, 8, and 5) who has no connection to Disney in any way. I took the grandkids today to see this movie and they loved it, as did I. The 3D is worth going to. There is enough silliness, adventure, and romance to allow boys and girls of almost all ages to love this show. There were some funny lines in the show that kids would not understand, but adults would enjoy. I heard a gentleman laughing throughout the whole show. I am not around teenagers, so I am not sure how a teenager would respond to this show. The storyline was different but predictable. That should not discourage anyone from going to this show. I would rate it as one of the best, if not the best animation show I have ever seen. This show is a winner as a family show.
__label__10 Let me start by saying that I'm an 18 year old male, and was kinda dragged into watching this by my girlfriend, who is a big fan of the Disney princess movies. I finally gave in the other day, and I've very glad that I did. The movie looked gorgeous, the animation was spot on; all while holding on to the classic Disney feel. The main characters are extremely likable. Repunzel is your typical Disney princess style character: sweet, funny, etc. Eugene, aka Flynn Rider, kinda stole the show for me, but maybe that's because I'm slightly gender biased. Nonetheless, you can't deny his wit and humor. Maximus the horse fills the role of animal sidekick perfectly; just as good as Donkey was to Shrek even though he doesn't talk. While the plot is relatively predictable, it was still quite an enjoyable movie. I didn't find myself to be bored at only of the parts, and I was laughing a lot more than I had expected to. This movie is an instant classic, and a near perfect example of what animated fairy tales should be like if they want to appeal to a wide range of viewers, not just tween girls. The ending was sweet and should leave everybody happy. I think there's enough fun in this movie for all ages, including an 18 year old guy like me.
__label__10 I was very sketchy walking into this movie. I didn't know what to expect, it's Disney which is promising, but it's also Disney's first CGI Disney movie that got a PG rating, so it seemed different. It was pretty hard for me to choose between 'Tangled' or 'Burlesque' but I'm glad I made the decision to watch 'Tangled'. This film has everything, for everyone, boys girls and tongue in cheek humor for adults. It's Disney's answer to Shrek, but in a classy way, that doesn't feed off of pop culture. The story of the film is simple. Rapunzel is a princess that has hair that has power to heal and keep people young, but once it's cut, it loses all power. When Rapunzel was just an infant she was kidnapped by an old woman who locked her away in a tower to keep her hair all to herself. Rapunzel grows up thinking that her kidnapper is in fact her mother, and the reason she's locked away is because her 'mother' wants to keep her safe from the hardships of the world. I'd tell you more about the movie but I don't want to ruin it. Let's just say she runs away. Very simple, fairy tale plot.I was kind of saddened that Disney has succumbed to making Princess movies using CGI, but watching this movie I realize that some scenes wouldn't have the power it had, if it were in 2D. The lantern lighting scene, for example, was amazing. It wouldn't have been the same in 2D. The music, was perfect. Enough musical number to keep Disney fans more than satisfied and not enough to where it's overkill. The songs were heartfelt and meaningful, they all served a purpose, it wasn't just a nameless song thrown into the movie. The voice acting, by Mandy Moore and Zachary Levi were amazing. I was a little sketchy about Mandy. I'm a long time fan, but I wasn't sure if she had the right voice to be a Disney Princess. She gave Rapunzel so much life, and innocence, I couldn't think of any other actress who could play her better. Zachary gave Flynn life, and humor, and made him a very likable character. However, the two characters that stole the show were Pascal, the chameleon, and Maximus, the horse. Although these supporting characters have no speaking lines, through actions and emotions, you know exactly what they want to say, and the message comes in loud and clear. This movie has enough action and comedy to keep boys happy and enough emotion, romance and drama to keep the girls happy. There are a few scenes that made me tear a little, well maybe more than a little. Some scenes have so much emotion and depth that it tugs at your heartstrings, and gives you goosebumps, especially the lantern scenes. Disney is testing the waters of their film making with this one. There were many alcohol references and even references about being drunk. There's violence, people getting stabbed, and yes, even blood. Which you never see is Disney movies. Overall, I highly recommend this movie, to everyone. Anyone could enjoy this movie. It's very hard not to like it. With theater prices so high, I suggest you don't spend 10 dollars to watch Cher and Christina, but watch 'Tangled' instead. They don't make movies like this anymore. It's much better than last year's 'Princess and the Frog'. Rapunzel is now in the line-up of classic Disney princess. I cannot stress how amazing this film is. Go out and see it.
__label__10 I saw the finished movie at the screening before the wrap party. The movie works on every level. The Characters, the animation, the story, the score, the romance, and it's all very cute as well (in a way Disney can apparently still pull off). The one thing that I didn't get into was the songs (Except maybe the "Mother Knows Best" reprise). They were a little weak melodically and you won't be singing them for weeks like I do "Part of Your World" every time I watch the "Little Mermaid." However, the songs are good enough not to bring the movie down. There are so many touching scenes in this movie and you will love all of the characters by the end and have an amazing time in the process. It is definitely worth seeing in the theater, as this is probably the prettiest computer animated movie I've seen. I just can't wait to see it in stereo!(BTW, I'm a 30 year old male who grew up with Disney. And I feel like I'm being objective when I say this movie works as a movie and not as a movie exclusively for 10 year old girls.)
__label__10 This movie hits the mark on all levels. It is beautifully illustrated and the story is simple, yet works and keeps your interest. I'm not a big song guy..... but the songs in this movie are very good. Either very funny or, when the love songs begin, nicely done with some good lyrics and music. It's a '10' all the way across the board. In keeping with the Disney animators reputation for hiding phallic symbols, this has maybe the most blatant one of all. When the mother is standing near the window, her shadow is unmistakably harder than Chinese arithmetic. Keep an eye out for it..... But, this movie really is well done. The song and visuals in the tavern with all the thug characters is pretty funny. Definitely see this one!!
__label__10 Not often does a movie bring tears in my eye, and this one truly turned on the waterworks. Maybe because I am going through my own hard times, or because I had just read a throughly heartbreaking the night before, but regardless, Tangled currently stands as one of the greatest animated films I have ever seen. To put it in a few words, Tangled had everything, and much more. The only way to truly experience this spectacular viewing is to see it for yourself! It spoke volumes to me, and on so many different levels! As a 19 year old male, the typical blood and guts, Saving Private Ryan movie goer, I went into the theater expecting to be bored out of my mind. Truth me told, I was not ecstatic during some of the singing scenes, but I was throughly amazed by almost every other scene in this film. It reminds me greatly of Enchanted, or even The Princess Bride. Romantic love stories, with quite a struggle, and great humor! I would recommend this movie to everyone, young and old! You have not lived until this movie can touch your heart, as it has mine. I look forward to seeing this amazing movie again, hopefully in theaters before I buy it as soon as it becomes available on DVD, where I can watch it over and over!
__label__10 I have seen this movie 3 times as of today, and possibly 4 as of next week, if that gives anyone a good idea of what a fantastic movie this is. Tangled is now my favorite of the 50 Disney animated movies out there, or any animated movie for that matter. Despite fans of the classic Disney princess being down on the CGI animation, I to the contrary found that this was a vast improvement. The scenery and basic concepts were still classic Disney, but the CGI made them movie vivid and realistic but in a cute animated way. The characters were all very deep, and all added their own humorous aspects to the movie. Repunzel was a bad ass without being violent, and more lovable than the rest of the princesses combined. The prince was actually a bandit role (Flynn) and way more dimensional than previous princes. He was a main part of the movie, and he added a great contrast to Repunzel's naive heroine. I left having a crush on Flynn, and wanting to go to the pet store to buy a pet chameleon. I predict that at the end of the movie you will leave feeling lighter at heart, and transported back to being a wide eyed youngster. Well, I did anyway.
__label__10 After seeing the previews I thought it'd be a light hearted and fun movie to watch but it just exceeded my expectations.The humor is only slightly outranked by the facial expressions, particularly those of Rider. Maximum was hilarious. A horse with a mind of his own that can do quite a number of 'stunts'.I would highly recommend this movie not only to adults but for young children as well. It's fast, exiting and very entertaining.I didn't find any parts to be 'slow going' and it certainly put a new slant on the old story of Rapunzel.A real 'feel good happy' type of movie.
__label__10 While updating our own profile on Facebook we came across a great link posted by Apollo Cinema Burnley for some free preview tickets for the new film Tangled 3D a film based on the story of Rapunzel which has been sprinkled with a little Disney Magic.Having a six year old as an excuse to see all the Disney films is great , but recently seeing Toy Story 3 3D and Shrek Happily ever after in 3D I left feeling that the movie makers still had some way to go with a 3d film . Viewing some trailers for tangled it looked like it was going to be a funny film but was the trailers packet with the best bits? With a big smile on my face I can honestly say read on :)When the screening started 3D glasses at the ready for us all, the Sony dog I think is great and hoped that Tangled would be more like this where you could reach out and grab things, fingers crossedFrom the start I was hooked and from the absolute silence in the cinema it seemed everyone else was too. For the next hour and a half I was taken on a none stop roller coaster that just kept getting better. The 3D was amazing and at one point my son really did reach out to grab something out of the film . The story is fantastic with every character capturing your imagination and throwing you into the film wondering what's coming next . A Disney film wouldn't be a Disney film without a bit of singing and dancing and this film has just the right amount , this coupled with the already great story leaves me to think it will become one of the Disney classics it really was brilliant.I would recommend going seeing this, it put a smile on my face and my son loved it, its one of the best films I've seen for ages that we could all sit and watch together.Review by The Local Explorer
__label__10 Taking place in a land far, far away, Tangled tells us about an evil witch named Gothel. By consuming a special flower, she was able to live forever. One day, the queen who ruled that land couldn't give birth, so she needed a special flower in order to have a baby. The king ordered his servants to trace the location of the flower, and gave it to his wife. In short, the baby was successfully born, but Gothel got angry and decided to take revenge, so she kidnapped the baby, aiming for her magic hair which she could use for eternal life. Rapunzel, the baby, grew up with her fake mother's (Gothel) lies, telling her that outside the tower was full of dangerous things. There was a handsome thief who managed to steal the Princess' tiara. He hid in Rapunzel's tower and then they met for the very first time. Mother Gothel tried to separate them but she failed. And the two of them finally saw the floating lantern, which was her biggest dream ever.Rapunzel is in an active yet wishy-washy girl, but she has a good heart. The thief, Flynn, is a handsome, playboy, and attractive guy. Mother Gothel is an antagonist. She loves Rapunzel, but is too obsessed with her hair.At first Rapunzel and Flynn didn't a smooth conversation and they didn't trust each other. As time went by, they fell in love. The conversations encourage for the viewers to support their dreams.The moral of this story is if we a have a dream, we have to make an effort and attempt to achieve it and never give up.Despite knowing the fact that it's a movie with an happy ending, we still watched it and we enjoyed it because of the excellent animation, good songs, and last but not least, because of Rapunzel herself is very entertaining; the long hair itself attracts us.
__label__10 Tangled is a master piece from Disney.From story to animation every little thing was amazing and spectacular to watch. From past few years Disney was was struggling,but i think they have recovered by making this Oscar deserving animation.It's a family entertainment with a very strong story line and the execution was just perfect.Hat's off to the director and the writer and i expect more from Disney now that they will make such masterpieces again.This is probably the prettiest computer animated movie I've seen.Tangled had everything, and much more. The only way to truly experience this spectacular viewing is to see it for yourself! It spoke volumes to me, and on so many different levels! Rating 10/10 :D .A must watch :)
__label__10 "Masterpiece" is the only word that truly describes the Disney movie Tangled.The story is flawless, the visual animation is perfect, because they aren't trying to experiment with new untried techniques before they are ready, Well, Good Job! Do I dare say that this is the best film since Aladdin? I dare. Perhaps I my self simply have a natural predilection toward parental defiance or maybe its just any work John Lasseter touches turns to pure gold.Every person I know who has seen this work of art was completely blown away and I salute everyone online for their in-kind expressions.I am a bit disappointed in the "so called" professional film critics as they dare to call this film anything but pure awe inspiring magic, but they shall have their own table reserved in the internet café of hell to express that inspiration lacking torture they receive.Best wishes my fellow film lovers, May the magic on the screen inspire you to great things
__label__10 With jaw-dropping graphics and an abundance of heart this is simply what you would wish for in a fairy tale: memorable, magical, and magnificent.We cannot remember the last time we saw a film that was simply so entertaining - there is almost nothing to complain about here in any way and much to praise from values to comedy to several scenes that were genuinely moving - this really is one of the best movies of the year and deserves its massive box office success.If perhaps you are reluctant to see it as you think it will just rehash old Disney ideas or be unsuitable for small children I would say those are always my first concerns, but here for the first time in a very long time I can honestly say that here we have a film that holds its own integrity and so, even with the villain's death, you don't feel that it was put in to scare.All in all, a magical, hilarious, witty, and very well thought through movie that deserves the Oscar that is surely coming to it - simply the best animated movie of the year as, more even than Toy Story 3, it rises beyond animation to make a wonderful heart-filled adventure that makes for very satisfying viewing indeed.Thank you, Disney.
__label__10 We took our two kids (4 and 6)to see a preview of this days before the official release. In short, it was one of the best Disney films yet. Everyone simply loved it. The 3-D effects were noticeable and wonderful. We got a kick watching our 4-year-old raise his hands as if to catch some of the action float off the screen. There were tears, and much laughter, as is Disney's style. The story of Rapunzel is very well told here, with great villains, heroes and wonderfully entertaining scene-stealers, like the non-verbal horse, Maximus. The music is very theatrical and very typical of the usual Alan Menken genius (Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin, Little Mermaid, etc.). This movie is very entertaining for adults, and the kids will absolutely go crazy for it! Treat your family this season to a great movie! You won't be disappointed.
__label__10 In the course of the last decade Disney had suffered a severe decline in quality. They lost that heart, magic and soul that once made them the rulers of animation. Move to 2008 and Bolt brought a ray of hope. Then in 2009 The princess and the frog marked their return to fairy tales. Enter 2010 with Tangled a fantastic movie that has all the elements to be a classic and a great movie for years to come. The story is very simple yet the movie never loses it pace. The animation is gorgeous and the music may not be epic but is everything you can expect from Alan Menken. In overall a great movie worthy of all the attention it can get. Lets hope that Disney continues this way.
__label__10 I am a huge Disney and animation fan, and was really interested in seeing Tangled. For me Disney have so many classics under their wing, Beauty and the Beast, The Lion King, Sleeping Beauty, Snow White, Bambi, Pinocchio, The Little Mermaid and Aladdin especially. For over a decade, the past Disney films ranged from very enjoyable(Emperor's New Groove) to truly disappointing(Chicken Little)- The Hunchback of Notre Dame and Tarzan were the last ones to truly blow me away- until now.While Tangled had me interested, I didn't like how the film was advertised. The trailer looked as though the film would be a Dreamworks knock-off, and I didn't think much of the title either. I needn't have worried, Tangled was wonderful and Disney's best film in a while(I know I said that about last year's Princess and the Frog, yes I actually liked that too, but after seeing Tangled I've changed my mind). The film is so much better than its advertising suggested, it is not a knock-off of Dreamworks and more importantly it not only has the Disney magic but it has something for both kids and adults.What wowed me immediately about Tangled was the animation. It is simply gorgeous. The colours look beautiful, the backgrounds are stunning especially that surrounding Rapunzel's tower and the characters are very well modelled. The real revelations are with Rapunzel's hair, which is a masterstroke and also the floating lanterns, a scene of true beauty and very touching. Alan Menken's music was a surprise and in a good way. For me, this was his best score since The Hunchback of Notre Dame(that score is amazing), I was especially taken with the Kingdom Dance.The songs are also not bad at all, they are not quite instant classics like Colours of the Wind, Beauty and the Beast, When You Wish Upon a Star, Heigh Ho, Part of Your World, Circle of Life, Hellfire, Under the Sea, Whole New World and Bells of Notre Dame are, but they are listenable with beautiful melodies and surprisingly decent lyrics. The best for me were the stunning I See the Light and the goosebump-inducing Mother Knows Best.The writing is another strong asset. Tangled has some truly excellent writing, particularly with Flynn and Rapunzel, it is funny, witty and even touching. The storytelling is polished and is snappily paced, with the action sequences lively and the ending fitting well with the rest of the movie. When I saw the trailer I was expecting a story scattered with pop-culture references and almost laughter-free dialogue, but actually the storytelling does have a classic feel to it and some scenes like the aforementioned floating lanterns give the film its magic.I also loved Tangled's characters. Rapunzel is one sassy heroine and is also someone young girls in particular can relate to. Flynn is a charming, dashing and charismatic hero too, and his interaction with Rapunzel alone gives Tangled its spark. Mother Gothel is another strong character, in her character you can see shades of both Lady Tremaine and Frollo, and on top of that she is a very intriguing villainess. Even more surprising were the comic relief characters. There have been animated films/Disney films where the comedy either works like a glove(Emperor's New Groove), is either hit or miss(I say this with a heavy heart, Hunchback of Notre Dame) or doesn't work at all(Chicken Little). Here the comedy works perfectly, hilarious without being too over-the-top. Pascal is both hilarious and cute and Maximus the horse is a sheer delight in everything he does.The voice acting also adds a lot to the film. Mandy Moore is a perfect choice for Rapunzel, she has a pleasant speaking voice and a beautiful singing voice. I loved the charisma Zachary Levi brings to Flynn, his voice is one of the main reasons why Flynn is as likable as he is, while Donna Murphy is perfect as Mother Gothel.In conclusion, this was a wonderful film and I recommend it heartily for both kids and adults. For Disney fans too, I think you will be delighted, if you want humour, adventure, beautiful animation, good music, classic storytelling, witty scripting and likable characters, Tangled is a perfect match. 10/10 Bethany Cox
__label__10 I saw Tangled yesterday in 3D, and let me just say, I'm glad I did. When I entered the theater and saw a HUGE line, I immediately noticed that every person in the line was under the age of nine. Now, while I was a little embarrassed, I was still too excited to see the movie to care that much. Tangled's heroine, Rapunzel, is a typical Disney princess. When I say that, I don't mean like Cinderella or Snow White, waiting for her prince to come and get her. I mean like Ariel, Belle, or Jasmine. She's curious about the world, headstrong, passionate, beautiful, and, of course, sweet and kind. Oh, and she's a girl that knows what she wants--to see a spectacular light show in person. But Rapunzel is stuck up in her tower with her mother, Gothel. Now, as the movie shows us, Rapunzel doesn't mind the tower all that much. She really loves Gothel, and she's kind of scared of the world outside. All she wants to do is see thousands of lanterns lit and launched into the sky, which she watches from her window every year on her birthday. This seems like a pretty reasonable request to me. But Gothel doesn't want her daughter to leave the tower for her own selfish, vain reasons (that you have to watch the movie to find out about). So poor, lonely Rapunzel seems doomed to spend the rest of her life trapped in a tower, watching and waiting for someone to come along and save her. And someone does come along! The swashbuckling thief, Flynn Rider, steals a crown and runs for cover before the palace guards can arrest him. He just happens to end up in the secluded spot of the forest that Rapunzel's tower is in. He gets one glance of her hair, then is knocked out with a frying pan and shoved in a closet. After coming to, Rapunzel bargains with her prisoner. She'll give him back the crown if he guides her to the lanterns, then takes her home. Flynn agrees. The music in this film isn't quite up to par with Disney's best (Circle of Life, Part of Your World, etc.), but since it was written by Alan Menken, it's definitely good enough to get into your head--and stay there. The song "When Will My Life Begin", sung by Mandy Moore as Rapunzel, is my personal favorite. The pop/country style is modern but fits the story, and the tune is catchy. The other songs are "Mother Knows Best", "I've Got a Dream", and "I See the Light". While Rapunzel and Flynn Rider are great characters, I have to say that a certain Maximus the horse stole the show for me. The speechless character's facial expressions and quirky mannerisms are hilarious. He seems to hate Flynn, but he later proves how lovable and loyal he really is. Pasqual the chameleon also provides some comic relief, but the one to look for is a short, drunk old man wearing only a diaper and wings. He has very limited screen time, but he always says something hilarious. I saw this film in 3D, which, although beautiful, probably wasn't a very different experience than it was in 2D, except for one scene towards the end, when Rapunzel and Flynn are surrounded by thousands of glowing lanterns. It was breathtaking. I rate Tangled a 9.5/10. It's creative, visually astounding, and possesses that Walt Disney magic that is so hard to find lately. But don't just take my word for it. Spend the money—you won't regret it. P.S. I originally wrote this review on my new blog (througharabbithole.blogspot.com), so I'd love if you'd check it out! This is my only post so far, but more will come.
__label__10 Like a lot of people I was raised in the 90's Little Mermaid (89), Beauty and the beast (91), Aladdin (92), lion King (94), Pocahontas (95), Hunchback (96), Hercules (97), Mulan (98), Tarzan (99)(Unfortunately they didn't count the rescuers down under a classic.....)But from Tarzan Disney has lost it's renaissance. They moved in to the 2000's Atlantis, Lilo and Stitch, Treasure planet, Brother Bear, Home on the Range, Bolt.Last year they had a great movie of the Princess and the Frog.And now they tried with the well-known fairytale of Rapunzel!And it worked beautifully. Disney is now going back to it's original roots of doing creative story-telling. As Walt Disney aspired and created to do. Walt Disney himself even tried to create a compelling story for the story Rapunzel but it never took off (Similar to the little mermaid)And many years later the Disney company decided to take it of the shelf and give it another go. And they succeeded.Rapunzel is a smart, artistic and Naive girl who is locked up in the tower all her her life. Always wondering when will her life Begin..... Turning 18 she dreams to see the "Stars" that appear every year on her birthday. But her Mother, Gothel refuses to let her go outside for Rapunzel's Safety. Stuck in the tower Rapunzel still wonders what life is like out there.But through lucky circumstances a charming thief wonders into her tower. Surprised, Rapunzel seizes this chance with him and makes a deal for him to take her to see the Stars.And so she and Pascal flies out of her tower to explore the new world around her. There are no pop culture references and is not bound to the laws of reality. (Such as people questioning about the weight of her hair....)People always compare the music to Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin, Little Mermaid. The music might not be as memorable. But it is still beautiful music and Alan Menken (Who did A lot of the Disney renaissance music) Did a Great job for it. It helps to set the mood.The animation is beautiful! Excellent detail, fluent movement of the characters (Maximus especially and the massive effort to do Rapunzel's Hair).The villain Mother Gothel might be just a villain but she is more complicated than any other Disney villain. In the film you can question if she loves Rapunzel as an Object or as a real daughter.Rapunzel in other hand is a great female heroin. Loving her mother so....and does what she says. But eventually explores outside of her tower and when she finds the truth she does not take it lightly. In the film she's the one calling the shots, not the male protagonist. The story was great and you can connect with the characters. (But I think the climax should have a bit more action in it) The story is Disney Generic but that's why we love it.....If Tangled is successful enough they might combat the story of "The Snow Queen"
__label__10 I absolutely loved this movie!! Disney originally tried making another princess movie a few years ago, Princess and the Frog. That movie was not good at all!! Disney is known for their amazing princess movies, and that was not one of them, and I have know idea what happened with that movie! Now that Disney has made this movie, they are back on top with their incredible princess movies!! The music was wonderful, and the movie was a little different from their usual princess movies. This one was funner and more modern, but they still had the whole princess feel to it, which is what Disney is known for! Disney's other movies, that don't have music, and aren't a princess movie that have been coming out over the years are good too. They just haven't made a princess movie like this one since The Little Mermaid, Aladdin, etc. I would definitely watching this movie, no matter what age! Especially if you grew up watching their princess movie, I absolutely know that you will love this movie!
__label__10 Tangled continues in Disney's animation legacy of timeless classics. Being Disney's first fairy tale outing done in CGI, it's easy to have doubts. The marketing for this film didn't really do Tangled any favors either. Originally titled Rapunzel, the name change to Tangled and the shift of focus onto the male co-star Flynn Ryder in the merchandising was done as a way to try to get more boys into the theater. Despite this faulty marketing move, Tangled is very much Rapunzel's story and Rapunzel is the star of this instant classic. Sticking very close to the roots of the original German Rapunzel fairy tale, Tangled's story is one about overprotective parental figures and the need to want to break free. Mandy Moore voices Rapunzel and sings for her. Yup, this a musical. This is a big grand musical in the classical Disney style with songs by Alan Menken and Glenn Slater. Alan Menken was the one who brought Little Mermaid, Aladdin, Beauty and the Beast and Enchanted to life; to name only a few. Moore really gets to the heart of Rapunzel and truly owns the part, but the real surprise is Donna Murphy as our main villain Mother Gothel. A true hero is measured by it's main villain and Mother Gothel does not disappoint.Every great Disney classics needs supporting characters. What would Mary Poppins be with Bert and the Banks' Children. What would Belle be without the enchanted objects. Snow White is just a lost girl in the forest without those dwarfs.An amazing supporting cast of characters that include Rapunzel's color changing chameleon companion Pascal, the scene stealing horse Maximus, and the main male co-star Flynn Ride accompany Rapunzel in her quest. Pascal and Maximus are animal companions but have more in common with Meeko and Percy from Pocohantas than Sebastian and Flounder from Little Mermaid for the fact that they don't talk. While they are without speech, they are fully fleshed out characters and you know exactly what they are trying to convey with their sometimes hilarious reactions. Maximus was especially a personal favorite of mine. Zachary Levi from the TV show Chuck voices and sings for Flynn Rider and it's easy to see why Disney would choose to up sale him in the TV ads. I would have to say that he's one of the most fleshed out Disney heroes since Aladdin. Tangled is a big grand epic Disney musical done in the classic sense with the modern rendering of CGI animation. This is for sure to be seen for years and years to come and I can't wait to include Tangled in my Disney Collection. I highly recommend this one.http://neonboy619.blogspot.com
__label__10 Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015) is a MARVEL damn good superhero flick and an excellent sequel! Yes it is miles way better than Jurassic World and Star Wars: The Force Awakens and Terminator Genisys I have enjoyed this film much better than Jurassic World, Star Wars and Terminator the new movies. This film is fun, popcorn, Action and entertaining action sequel flick. I like the first one but I love this one much more. The first time I watch it, I did not like this film at all, it did not work for me, but the second time around this flick was awesome and it become one of my favorite MARVEL superhero movies. I love this film so much, more than the first Avengers. James Spader made the movie for me! So much better than Loki. 
James Spader and Robert Downey Jr. played together in a teen movie Tuff Turf in 1985 and 30 years later they teamed together to star in a MARVEL comic book super hero film. I like Tuff Turf but Avengers: Age of Ultron is far way better film to me. I love this film so much and I will never get the backlash. Joss Whedon gave me everything I wanted in a sequel. This and the first film are in my top 10 films of all time. I waited a long time for this universe and I am loving every minute of it. Superhero movies come out all time but something like this is what I love about movies. 
Plot: Tony Stark creates the Ultron Program to protect the world, but when the peace-keeping program becomes hostile, The Avengers go into action to try and defeat a virtually impossible enemy's to get. Earth's mightiest heroes must come together once again to protect the world from global extinction. I really enjoy this movie I don't get the backslash and a lot of people were disappointed with this sequel that it is not so good as the first film. Age of Ultron is in my top 3 favorite comic book films. Number 1 will always be Captain America: The Winter Soldier and number 2 will be Captain America: The First Avenger, I just love those two films: Captain America is my favorite superhero character in MARVEL comic books. Captain America in this movie is the most decent hero in this movie, he did not want the leave the island with people stuck on it, he refused too, I have seen a hero in him. People are keep getting upset over Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson), "oh look what they did with Black Widow." I saw the film and I am seeing her kicking ass or calm down the Hulk, which is a pretty ballsy thing to do. Specially for someone who has no balls and she is kicking ass and driving motorcycle, driving around shooting for Cap, helping them to get vision android to beat Ultron and she is the only one with no powers, except Hawkeye (Jeremy Renner), she has the to get the thing for them. I think it would be weird to kidnapped Thor, if you put Thor in the scene duh. I enjoy this movie much more than the first film, the first film I liked okay, I like the first Avengers film. This is a fun popcorn entertainment flick that I really love. 
I like the romance between Black Widow with Hulk it was really good fast paced entertainment. I love Elizabeth Olsen as Wanda Maximoff / Scarlet Witch I like the twist by the end of the film that she turn her side around when she found out that Ultron wants to destroy everything on this planet I love that. You have Aaron Taylor-Johnson in it from Kick-Ass film as Pietro Maximoff / Quicksilver sadly he dies on the end of the film, but he saves Hawkeye and a kid from Ultron firing bunch of bullets on them I thought that was pretty decent in the film. In my opinion Aaron Taylor-Johnson did a good job playing his character. I love that they return Samuel L. Jackson to the movie back as Nick Fury and that he help them out fighting Ultron. James Spader did a terrific excellent job playing Ultron.Avengers: Age of Ultron is a 2015 American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics superhero team the Avengers, produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures. It is the sequel to 2012's The Avengers and the eleventh film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). You have a lot of action in it, I also love that Tony Stark, Steve Rogers, Thor, Bruce Banner (Hulk), Natasha Romanoff, and Clint Barton work together after Ultron failed to destroy them and they go in to safe house to Clinton's family, I like that. When Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olsen) touches Black Widow, Iron Man and Thor I like that you see a background of Natasha Romanoff's childhood, I like that. I love the African shipyard you see them on a ship and I love the last stand. I love that the Vision helps Avengers to destroy and stop Ultron from extinction. Btw I love to death Black Widow / Natasha Romanoff (Scarlett Johansson) she is so beautiful and charming I love her.
Overall: I am giving this flick 10 out of 10 for me Age of Ultron is my #3 favorite super hero movie. I can't wait for the next movie: Captain America: Civil War.
__label__10 Yes, the Avengers Age of Ultron is a dream come true. This is exactly the sequel to a great film that we have been dreaming about. It's superb on every single level. It honestly has no real flaws that I could see. How great does a movie have to be given the inherent difficulties in making a film like this in the first place? Writer/director Joss Whedon did an admirable job of balancing the screen time of the sprawling and expanding cast.As for the new characters, I loved what they did with The Vision and how they did it. The Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver — aka, Pietro and Wanda Maximoff are amazing as well. Wanda's psychic powers are much more complicated and empathetic then I expected them to be. What I love about Wanda is that she physically goes through emotional trauma when she uses certain powers and we as the audience go with her on that emotional journey. Like just about everything this film, that really packs a punch.Marvel's done a great of making its superhero movies about the title characters more than the villains. In both team films now, the bad guy has stepped up and been phenomenal. Both films delivered true treats. This movie actually tops the first in scope and drama and that's in no small part to a superb villain. I feel that Ultron tops any bad guy since Darth Vader himself. His presence, manipulation and motivation leads to the best action sequences ever put to film. It also leads to an intriguing story and remarkable performances as this fine cast is allowed to flex their emotional muscles as well as their superhero muscles. I can say without hesitation that movies just don't get better than this one sequel or otherwise.
__label__10 The humor, angst and drama are remarkable for a superhero film. In fact, most will consider them remarkable for any type of movie. I can't think of a weak moment in the film, as it is strong from beginning to end. Anyone doubting that this entire cast (new and old) couldn't work well together or that characters would be cheated out of screen time need not worry. EVERYONE gets to shine. Downey as well as Evans are Oscar caliber good in this movie. (Setting up what has to be an amazing next installment in "Civil War") All the performances are straight to the point perfect. Hulk is again perfect in his CG transformation and Spader's Ultron uses his wonderful voice and mannerisms to perfection. Each new character is exquisitely cast and the old school guard has never been better. That includes RDJ as Tony Stark. We all loved what we've seen before from him and this evolution of Stark is even more intriguing. Elizabeth Olsen gives one of the best new character portrayals in recent years. People are going to want to see a LOT more of her Scarlet Witch in the future. Also, Jeremy Renner is finally given Hawkeye material worthy of his abilities and worthy of the character itself. He truly does steal more than one scene and has some of the best one-liners imaginable. This easily fulfilled and the exceeded all of my expectations. I can't wait to see where they branch the Avengers team and concept from this point forward. There are so many great possibilities. This really is everything anyone would want in a movie. It delivers everything I had hoped to see and quite a bit that I didn't even think possible.
__label__10 ****NO Spoilers**** I went to see the latest installment in the Marvel canon of films last night at one of the UK midnight screenings.My expectations for this movie were sky-high, but not only were those expectations met - they were blown clean out of the water.Is it as good as 'The Avengers', arguably the best comic book movie of all time? It is...and it is so much more. It may be lacking the magic of seeing these characters assemble for the first time, but it makes up for that with many goose bump moments throughout.Does the movie have flaws? Of course it does - how could a movie with this scale and this ambition possibly not have any? These flaws, however, are so minor (a couple of plot contrivances, some shaky character accents) compared to what Joss Whedon was able to achieve that anyone who focuses on them extensively is just nitpicking for the sake of it.This is as close to perfect as a summer blockbuster movie can possibly get. You get a bit of everything: character development, great individual character moments, a rich and interesting plot with a great villain and the usual rich dollops of Whedon humor (yes, the movie is 'darker' than the first, but it is almost as funny even so). How he manages to balance so many screen presences so magnificently is beyond me, it comes off as an almost completely effortless master class in rapid-fire plotting and dialog. As in the first Avengers movie, everyone gets their moment in the spotlight and the characters that may have come up a little short in the first installment, most notably Hawkeye and Black Widow, get to shine especially in this iteration.The action sequences are breathtakingly, mind-bogglingly well choreographed and directed and there are numerous shots that seem to leap from a comic book page. There are several moments where - if you feel any connection to these characters and their rich comic book history at all - you will feel the urge to leap from your seat and pump your fist in the air. There is so much to care for, so much to cheer for, so much to marvel at it is quite literally too much to fully appreciate in one viewing. ...and this is where we get to what (some) of the critics are griping about: Yes, the movie is long (personally, I could have sat there watching this spectacle another hour). Yes, it is crammed with content (characters, plot lines, setups for future movies) in every single frame - but never to an extent that you are taken out of the narrative. This movie will stand up fantastically to repeated viewings because there is so much to enjoy, so much to soak up and there are so many great moments to savor.Finally, the stand-out character of this movie is a new arrival: The Vision. Paul Bettany delivers a perfectly balanced performance in this role and when his character soars through the air, golden cape and all, it is a joy to behold. This is truly a comic book come to life...and I can't wait to see where the story takes us next.Boy, do the Russo brothers have a mountain to climb for the upcoming 'Infinity War' saga - this will be a tough act to follow.
__label__10 I just want to get to the point, this movie is outstanding. This will most likely be the biggest movie of 2015. This is a great movie for those enjoy who action, suspense, and awe worthy moments. This was unbelievably better then the first and I had my doubts but of course Marvel blew me away. I can not even think of one bad thing to say honestly, Marvel knows what to do and how do to do it. If you are a Marvel fan you need to see this movie. I will admit I was a bit upset when I found out Loki/ Tom Hiddleston would not be in this one but Ultorn delivered an amazing performance as well. Get your tickets and get your friends, family, or both because you are in for a huge surprise.
__label__10 Let's just get straight to point here, Avengers Age of Ultron is the best marvel movie to date. You can make a strong argument for it being the best superhero movie of all time. Yes it's really that good. The plot line was very intriguing. It was far from the cliché superhero story. The script was funny and very witty. Joss Whedon did a wonderful job, it's a shame that he won't be directing the next 2 avengers films. The only upside is that he will be still there as a producer for phase 3 of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. This story really sets up phase 3 and one of the most anticipated movies of 2016, Captain America: Civil War. My one regret in terms of the story is that it could be slightly longer, even though the entire film ran smoothly. I would have still liked to see more of the movie, I guess we will have to wait for the DVD release to see some extra scenes. All the actors, unsurprisingly, played their roles superbly. Robert Downey jr again played the genius, billionaire, playboy, philanthropist, which we all love. This performance just adds to the argument that he is Iron Man. Chris Evan always brings a sense of honesty and heart to the role of Captain America. Scarlet Johansson again showed us that a male isn't the only one who can be a badass that young boys look up to. Chris Hemsworth, Mark Ruffalo, Samuel L Jackson, Jeremy Renner, Cobie Smulders, Don Cheadle and Anthony Mackie all reprised their roles wonderfully and each one of them added an extra dimension to their character. The newcomers Thomas Kretschmann, Andy Serkis, Elizabeth Olsen and Aaron Taylor-Johnson were all great additions to the already extremely talented and lively cast. The newcomer that really gave the strongest performance was clearly James Spader. His intimidating robotic voice really brought the character to life and added sense of realism, in an otherwise unbelievable character. He brought our future fears (from terminator) of an AI trying to wipe out humanity. Marvel are not known for their memorable super villains, in fact they're known for the opposite of this, but this villain is up there with Loki, Ultron is one of the more terrifying and surprisingly relatable/understandable villains in the MCU. However Paul Bettany's performance as the vision stole the show. He took the spotlight for every scene that he was in and I can't wait to see him again. The cast really gel well as a unit and you'll be thinking that these actors grew up with each other, after you've seen the movie. The chemistry between everyone holds the film together. The action in the movie, let's just make this quick, was mind blowing. For anyone who's seen the trailers, you will already know that the action shown was amazing. For any of you that think that they've showed too much or every action piece, from the movie, in the trailers, you couldn't be more wrong. When you watch the movie you'll notice that the action scenes are orchestrated beautifully and that every character has upped their game since the last time we saw them on screen, especially Captain America. This is a big budget movie and this is clearly shown in the stunts and the action sequences. The movie was shot all over the world this time and that helps to show that these group of people don't just fight for one nation but the world. The locations were beautiful and i will always prefer a real natural set over a green screen. This movie was a fantastic treat to watch and it's really a shame that this movie wasn't longer, so that we could all enjoy it for 20-30 minutes more. I had high expectations coming into the theatre and when I left, I was more than satisfied. This movie will be enjoyed by people of all ages, it's got cool action for the kids and the plot is more than interesting enough to hold the attention of the adults. This movie delivers on all levels and can be considered as one of the best, if not the best movie of all time. It's clearly the best movie in the past few years. P.S. Stay for after the movie ends (mid-credits) for a treat for phase 3. I will be uploading a video review to this movie soon. Please subscribe to my channel and watch the videos already posted. Thank you for your time! https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCQzQVmzrHi_IzaxQ5jH9Cig/videos Uploaded the review now!! Please watch!!http://youtu.be/80HlwBIDBJg
__label__10 I know I know. I saw it in theaters too, and felt like it could've been so much better. While the Batman element was good, the narrative felt fractured, and the third act was just one long stunt scene. Superman was relegated to a supporting character, and other characters didn't get a chance to shine. And then I chanced on the ultimate cut. Calling it 30 mins of "extra" footage is unfair to Zack Snyder because it's exactly these 30 mins that makes the movie a worthy one. What I can say about the theatrical cut is this - It had the blockbuster elements - music, visuals, stunts, CGI. But, it lacked the human elements. The first 20 mins of the movie had it, but not after that. The extended cut in comparison has a flow to the narrative. There are no disjointed scenes, everything flows smoothly, and there's connective tissue. Superman gets to spend some time with his father, and mother. Clark Kent does some investigative journalism. Superman helps the people after the blast. Lois Lane doesn't jump to conclusions, she gets to the bottom of the crime. Lex Luthor apparently had a coherent plan - everything is explained pretty well. Wonder Woman was already good, so there's no change there :) Also, the "Martha" scene seems better executed, because it is a few seconds longer, and there's time to breathe it in. So, here's my take on this movie - The theatrical cut was junk. Get the Bluray for ultimate edition, and you shall not be disappointed. I've seen it so many more times now, and it's the definitive cut. It is the movie we deserve. It's a unique take on Batman, and Superman. It's a gritty take on the superhero movie genre, and definitely the best DCEU movie, and the best DC movie since The Dark Knight.P.S. Yes it's dark. We're adults, and we should appreciate mature film making without intentionally silly moments. It attempts to be philosophical, and something deep instead of just trying to make you chuckle.
__label__10 Actually...I didn't know what to expect. When you see Wonder Woman, you know it will be off of Wonder Woman and off of a Wonder Woman story, but with Batman V Superman, I was like, "hmmmm, so who is this about?" It was pretty obvious that it would feature many characters, but I thought the introduction to Batman was amazing. Ben Affleck nailed the part, not only as Batman but also as Bruce Wayne. He is my Batman. Henry Cavill continued to be super as the Man of Steel. And he is my Super - Man. A dark story? Yes, without a doubt. Could it have had a few more jokes? Sure. But not all movies or stories need to have jokes when certain events are serious. I really hope people can see this review and take another look at the movie, because, I loved it. I really hope the ratings can go up, eventually. And P.S, this movie is the perfect set up to Justice League.
__label__10 I want to go on record as saying that this is a truly thrilling cinematic experience in so many ways. If pressed, I guess I could acknowledge that there were a couple ... let's say "clumsy" moments. And in a film that runs to three hours, that hardly seems like a significant issue, certainly not enough to rate it with fewer than 9 stars.This film has everything. There is dramatic tension right from the start. There is a magnificent story arc that picks up quite seamlessly from 'Man of Steel' and propels the viewer not only into the life of Clark Kent/Superman but also of Bruce Wayne/Batman.The villain is no mere cartoon of a villain; he is truly thoroughly (and apparently irrevocably) diabolical. He is a psychopath, and you wish for his death over and over and over. You want Superman to reduce him to ash with the power of his eyes.I have read a number of viewers' reviews, and it seems that the people who disliked the film / gave it a low rating had rather unfair and unrealistic expectations of it. That is, their own prejudices about how the plot could/should unfold or what the character development could/should be, etc. ruined the film for them. And that is a shame.My thought is: I settle into my seat, wait for the lights to dim, and then I wait to be transported by the film. I accept it, lock, stock, and barrel.As another reviewer remarked, I love how the film begins from the point of view of Bruce Wayne as he is among people on the ground who have fallen victim to the attack of Zod and the other Kryptonians.Why would Bruce Wayne not like Superman? Why would the good people of Earth hurl insults at Superman and burn him in effigy (on the news)? Because the good people of Earth just got catapulted into a new reality in which there are not only extraterrestrial beings (surprise!) but they are also superman! And a group of them are hell-bent on destroying humankind and taking the planet for themselves.It is difficult to see Superman as separate from the whole Kryptonian Krew.It seems that many moviegoers forgot that Bruce Wayne is also human. Sure, he's a hero, but he is flawed.. Just like the rest of us. He is a vigilante, after all.He has let his vigilantism get the better of him. HE is actually the one working outside the boundaries of the law, not Superman. It is the clear head of Alfred that shows us that he has gone into a rather dark place, that he has not seen what is really going on (in Luthor's scheme), and so he chooses to embark on his own scheme scheme to take out the alien invader. He is (allegedly) thinking of the future: if he wipes out the all-powerful alien, then it can't turn on humankind in the future. At least, he convinces himself of that.A philosophical question is raised in the film: should Clark Kent have remained a simple man from Kansas and never have become the Superman? Should he just let people die and let calamities happen? The question is answered for us in the character of Diana Prince/Wonder Woman. She withdrew from mankind (her exact words) and just sat around watching. Watching while people died horrible deaths all around her. So, should Superman have done the same? Do these special beings, these 'metahumans', have some kind of moral imperative to intervene, or should they be allowed to be regular people, too? It seems that humans want it both ways.It seems that humans are saying: "Don't be a superalien ... except when I and my friends and family are in trouble. Then come save us."
__label__10 I ignored the bad reviews and watched anyways. This film had a lot to live up to after Civil War was released and I went into this film expecting the worst. It ended up to be the best Superhero film of 2016 to me. One complaint was that this film was more concerned about universe building than telling a great story than Civil War but for me it was the other way around; Civil War felt like a build up to something else and to be honest, I felt that way when I saw the other MCU films. Batman vs Superman however not only had a great story, but it also felt a lot more consistent than Civil War. This film was way more diverse with the cast than the MCU but unlike the MCU, I felt like this film doesn't go overboard with the SJW stuff like the MCU films or The Star Wars Sequel films do. The Visuals were AMAZING, The Score by Hans Zimmer and Junkie XL was AMAZING as well, The Tone is just right as I actually felt for the characters emotionally, The Cinematography kept my eyes glued to the screen, and the script felt really Intelligent and Complex and despite people calling the writing confusing, I was able to piece it together with no problem whatsoever. This film is similar to Empire Strikes back in terms of popularity so over time after the other movies are released, this movie would probably be more popular.This film was way better than I Expected and deserves another chance.
10/10
__label__10 I don't care what the critics say, this is a very well-done movie. I'll start my review by listing what I like about the movie.1.) Ben Affleck is the best batman to me and it is not close. He pulls off the role of an aging batman extremely well. Also, Zack Snyder's vision of batman is legit. I have always hated batman up until this adaptation of him. Instead of being a conflicted and idealistic batman, this batman is dark, gritty, and 100% a badass. His equipment is decked out with machine guns and he has no aversion to killing people. In fact, he probably kills about 50 criminal by the time this movie is over. The warehouse scene is the coolest batman scene in any movie.2.) The development of a grudge between batman and superman is pulled off flawlessly. It actually makes sense why batman dislikes superman. Then, when they do fight it is about the coolest thing you can expect to see from a superhero film. 3.) I disagree with a lot of people about Jesse Eisenberg's Lex Luthor. In my opinion, he played his role to perfection. 4.) B v S sets up Wonder Woman and Justice League with Gal Gadot's cameo as Wonder Woman and short clips of Aquaman, the Flash, and Cyborg. B v S is one of my favorite superhero films and rewatching it never gets old.
__label__10 Best comicbook movie ever, plus great picture, soundtrack, have watched over 70+ times and still not boring. Really love that we have this kind of movie in nerd culture. Seems like director and actors really love comic, I can feel the chemistry between them. Wishing we have this kind of CBM in the future
__label__10 I felt the need to write a review two years after the film was launched, with Wonder Woman and Justice League already out, and Marvel on the other side making great movies as Thor Ragnarok, Black Panther and Infinity on the way.I can't help but wondering why comic and superhero fans didn't appreciate this film as much as i did. I mean this film is trully awesome, what's not to like?BATMAN: Just imagine how hard it is after Nolan's and Bail's Batman for someone to create something good. Snyder and Affleck created somethin even better. Affleck was great, physically and emotionally, acting was really good, and the fight scenes... Batman vs Superman, or Batman against all in the warehouse. Have you seen anything like that before or ever again? I couldn't believe that i liked Affleck's Batman more than Bail's (respect for Christian).SUPERMAN: We all had already watched man of steel, embraced it and knew what was coming, and i mean no more Christopher Reeve (bigger respect,RIP) and less Superman smiling and saving cats from trees. Cavill was really good once again and i didn't feel for one second that he is dark. Appearing at night doesn't mean you're dark. Let's not forget that it was Batman's backround.WONDERWOMAN: And suddenly there she was. Saving Batman from Doomsday with Junkie XL's amazing score. I still have no words, and Gadot proved it on her solo movie.And then, the script, the lines, the interaction: the "is she with you", the "do you bleed".
And what about the final battle, they all teamed up, every one did his part and Superman killed Doomsday (by the way, also good). And then he died.The purpose of this review two years after the movie is just to state that we comic and superhero fans waited for long to live this era where serious creators make superhero movies and it is really ungrateful to not just love this movie. I can only put it equal to Avengers (2011). That great. 
PS: All this negative opinions and reviews resulted in a very anxious Justice League.
__label__10 A completely unique take on America's two most famous comic book superheroes. An aggressive and ruthless Batman who is older and jaded. A sensitive and reserved Superman who has to deal with the pressures of being a hero and a villain by the world (as seen in a montage in the film known as the "Day of the Dead" scene.) The films major antagonist is Lex Luthor who is also a new, younger, and more psychotic take on the character. Calculated, but keeps up a very charming and humorous appearance. A common complaint in this film is that the plot and characters are "messy" and not well characterized. But if you take a deeper look, in a realistic situation, Bruce Wayne would develop major aggression and fear after 20 years of fighting crime (as well as the death of his parents at age 10.) And Clark Kent would logically feel a level of guilt for having caused damage to Metropolis following the fight at the end of Man of Steel, though he had no choice since the fight was to save the world. Collateral damage would be inevitable with two superhuman-like figures (Superman and Zod.)The performances in this film only add to the well written characters. Ben Affleck gives us an enticing interpretation of Batman that is smooth out of the costume and gritty and raw in it. Henry Cavil gives us a nuanced Superman and shows much emotion at times without saying a word, much like Affleck. Jesse Rosenberg gives us a humorous, but mysterious performance with implied past traumas making him the monster he is, also showing so much with facial expressions and not words. A complaint that is also very common for this film is the cinematography and visual effects. The films stylistic choices in this respect are actually quite fitting for the atmosphere of the film. Dark, with a sense of color and stylistic visual effects (since it is a comic book film.) The music in this film is as important as anything else. It truly makes you feel the majestic nature of Superman, the dark nature of Bruce Wayne and Batman, and the conniving nature of Lex Luthor. And the motif that has followed itself into the most recent DC film for Wonder Woman. The films polarizing, but in my mind BRILLIANT director Zack Snyder has sculpted his vision into film. It feels like the film Stanley Kubrick would have made if he loved superheroes. Much that is implied but not directly put into words, which works here because it adds depth and details to be discovered upon in different viewings.All in all, this film when seen with an open mind, is filled with depth and detail on virtually all levels. It is much more than surface level intrigue. I'd go into it more, but I don't want a spoiler filled review. This is my personal favorite comic book film, and cracks my top 20 favorite films. A unique cinematic experience that leaves me completely satisfied after every viewing. One last note. This film may never be recognized for the depth I believe it has, but I hope in time it does, the way many of the films recognized as classics now we're received when they were first released, such as 2001: A Space Odyssey, Blade Runner, and even Citizen Kane. So go into this film with an open mind and you might find there is more to it than many give it credit for.
__label__10 To be true, I have waited so long for BvS to become a reality and it did. Had very high hopes from the movie but just when it was released, it downed my spirit by reading the critics. I even for a moment got confused to even go and watch the movie or no as I didn't wanted to ruin the legendary encounter of these top class super heroes. I couldn't resist and I went to see it today.Awwww man what a movie this is !! Once again, Awww man what a movie this is !!This has been so far one of the best comic adoptions I have seen. Batman & Superman were at the peak of their acting. Class acting by both. Wonder women (despite her small b***s issue) was exactly giving the feeling of a wonder woman. Action scenes are insane. Makes you emotional and thrilled at the same time. Story was very well balanced and masterfully handled.The only thing which I didn't like was, Lois Lane's (Amy Adams) acting. She isn't fit for this. She couldn't live upto what she actually had to. Looks like a kid lost in the park. Small glitches in the story telling as to how Lois Lane came to know that Kryptonite spear is needed to defeat Doomsday as she ran back to find where she threw it? Who told her? That's one blunder. All in all, the movie is a must watch. I will surely go again to see it as I couldn't fill my hunger in one shot. What the hell Critics said about this movie??? I believe Lux Luthor has something to do with it. LOL. I think he paid them well to say crap about this marvellous movie, just another attempt to defame Superman and Batman which he tried in all the movie itself. BvS: Dawn of Justice  Hell yeah !!
__label__10 Having looked forward to this film for many years, I naturally went in with high expectations. And they were most certainly met. From the casting of Brandon Routh (who I actually find slightly better than Christopher Reeve because of the emotional complexity and sense of mystery Routh brings to the character) to Kate Bosworth (who i think is the BEST actress to have portrayed Lois Lane) to Kevin Spacey (different interpretation than previous Lex's but still very good), all of the actors have played their respective roles well.As for the story, many have questioned its originality. The plot elements were similar to Superman: the Movie because Singer needed to establish the connection of this franchise with the original movie due to the many different interpretations and versions of the character over the years. Plus, a different, more serious take on Perry White, and the idea of superman's disappearance and Lois having had a child with another man were all aspects of originality to the film. Like I said before, Routh seems to have taken a more serious approach to the Superman character than Reeve but still maintains many qualities of Reeve's performance.And the special effects...well...enough said if you've seen the film :) Overall, this may be the best of the "Superman" series, and, if not, it is definitely on par with Richard Donner's original classic.P.S. Don't listen to the haters :) Watch the film with an open mind and judge for yourself.
__label__10 As a sequel, it had much to live up to the glory of the first film, and personally, I thought it had done rather well. The special effects on Bill Nighy (Davey Jones) and his pirate crew was perhaps the best; it was very realistic. The movie had a bit of a slow start, but overall was a wonderful film. Johnny Depp did well in his portrayal of Captain Jack Sparrow, as previously in the first film. Keira Knightley and Bill Nighy were also of mentionable performances. I thought Orlando Bloom was a little wooden, as I thought of his performance in the first film, but still believable and he managed to pull it off. The ending which was rather interesting, served its purpose in suspense. It left the audience hanging, and it also left me hanging in a buzz of questions. I'm extremely eager to see the next Pirates of Caribbean film. However, the film did contain quite a number of references to the first film, The Curse of the Black Pearl, and I advise you to recap your knowledge of the first film and re-watch it to get the gist. Overall, I believed the second Pirates of Carribbean was a rather good film, and very successful in standards of sequels. I can't wait for the third.
__label__10 I only have one thing to say about this film... BRILLIANT (with a capital B)! Although there were some brilliant moments in the film, it was Johnny Depp who was a standout for me. His witty moments (especially when he says 'Oh, bugger' when confronted by the tribe) were wonderful. There are some moments here that were nasty (not gross/gory nasty), so the little kiddies may want to avoid this one. (It is rated M in Australia, PG-13 for America) But, it was a brilliant film. If you don't get to see it on the big screen, get the DVD when it comes out. You will not be disappointed! P.S. Did anyone love the new Walt Disney Pictures logo at the beginning? I did. I can't wait to see it again on DVD!
__label__10 I will make my comments without spoilers so that people who haven't yet seen the movie can read it.One of the worst things that can happen in a sequel to a successful movie is that audiences will feel like they're seeing the same movie again with slight variations on the theme. Dead Man's Chest gives us all the characters we loved in the first movie, but puts them in a refreshingly original movie. The action sequences will keep you on the edge of your seat. And there are more laugh-out-loud moments in this movie than in most comedies. I felt entertained from the beginning right through to the special scene after the closing credits. In fact, I enjoyed it so much that I and my entire family will be going to see it again today.For parents with young children: This movie is more violent than the first movie. There is a lot of killing, though none of it is shown close up or in a grisly manner. Davey Jones and his gang are very gross. In the screening I attended, there were a lot of "Ewwww!"s from the audience. If you have sensitive young ones, you should probably leave them at home.
__label__10 I LOVED IT!!!!! Everyone in the movie was suited to play that role. It is just the end almost made me wanna cry. Barbossa walks in to help find Jack and the Crakken and the movie ENDS!!!! How much does that stink??? I wanted to cry I needed to know what happens..... and also it was very funny. AMAZING visual effects. Davy Jones mask looked so real. This movie has some of the best visual effects I have ever seen with the exception of the 10th Kingdom. Anyway, I recommend this movie to everyone. It was also very funny. Also I thought the man who played the evil guy who wanted Jack's compass was a very good actor but I didn't like his part.
__label__10 This had to be absolutely wonderful. Usually a lot of movies that have a second or a third tend to ruin the first one, and this one certainly does not. It was one hundred percent better than the first one, actually. It was still action packed, funny, and it features people you would not expect, I was even dropping my jaw the whole time! If you liked Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl, you're going to have to love this one too. Of course, Johnny Depp's acting is still wonderful as the last one, as well as Orlando Bloom's and Keira Knightley's. The effects are absolutely stunning and keeps you on the edge of your seat. I do suggest though, if you have not seen the first one, you need to see that before going to see this one..otherwise, you're going to be a "tad" clueless on some parts. The movie does total justice and I would see it again and again!
__label__10 This movie is every bit as good as the first, if not better. The old characters are just as you remember them (with some changes in fortune for a couple), the new characters are wonderfully colorful and memorable, and the bad guys are delightfully evil and cunning. I loved the plot, I loved the way it played out. Jokes and snappy one-liners abound, just as witty as in the first. And, once again, Captain Jack Sparrow has one of the best introductions in movie history. The special effects were very good and everything looked realistic. The sword work was excellent, the fights both suspenseful and entertaining. And, there's a wonderful surprise at the end. If you want a movie that will make you think, this isn't really it. But, if you want a fun, entertaining movie that will take you away from reality for a little while, this is definitely the one for you. It's a great ride, and great fun.
__label__10 I tend to side with critics often, and usually find they are on target - case in point- Man of Steel - which I had the highest of hopes for, and felt it was mediocre at best. So, I went in to Lone Ranger with low expectations based on reviews I had read from the so called experts. I was a fan of the series as a kid. Was not sure what to expect from this. Well, This is the Lone Ranger movie for the 21st century. It was fantastic. What movie did these critics watch? It set a perfect tone. Depp was terrific. Hammer was pitch perfect - he became grew to be the Lone Ranger. It left me wanting more, and movies rarely do that for me. Spread the word of mouth - we need this movie to have legs so we get a much deserved sequel. Trust me, its GREAT. And my 7 y/o son loved it just as much.
__label__10 IGNORE any bad reviews of this movie. Here's another great summer comedy (also see The Heat) but without the R rating so it's a good family movie. I laughed and laughed at this movie. I was thinking it was going to be a serious take on the Lone Ranger (yeah, yeah I know...even with Johnny Depp). But very quickly as the movie progressed I was laughing and having a great time watching these two.Johnny Depp is a master at facial expressions and this type of comedic timing. Sort of like Jack Sparrow but without the flamboyance. I was totally entertained the whole time he was in a scene in this "long" movie which went by very fast. The other actors also did a good supporting job with just enough drama to add to this movie rather than distract.The scenery is awesome and the action scenes are beautifully photographed or green screened, CGI'd or real...whatever. I have nothing negative to say about this one...funny, no gratuitous sex, violence or language, imo. Just fun. What a nice break...I do believe I'm going to see it again!
__label__10 The Lone Ranger presents a new take on the classic characters the Lone Ranger and Tonto. This film is exactly what a summer movie should be and one fun ride that you most defitenly don't want to miss.The plot is as follows: An American Indian spirit warrior, Tonto recounts the untold tales that transformed John Reid, a man of the law, into a legend of justice. The two unlikely heroes must learn to work together and fight against greed and corruption This film is from the team that brought us Pirates of the Caribbean that includes director Gore Verbinski, producer Jerry Bruckheimer, screenwriters Ted Elliot and Terry Rossio, and composer Hans Zimmer.The film stars Armie Hammer as the Lone Ranger and Johnny Depp as Tonto, these two have great chemistry that really shows, The Lone Ranger also stars Helena Bonham Carter, William Fichtner, and Tom Wilkinson.The Lone Ranger rides strong for several reasons that include direction, cinematography, casting, screenplay, special effects, pacing, acting, and story. Due to these reasons the Lone Ranger can gain a new younger fan base while still appealing to older fans or casual moviegoers.The bottom line is watch this movie and enjoy its incredible action and comedy that will surly rope you in.... And watch out for some throwbacks to the classic show. 10/10: Hi-Ho Silver!
__label__10 The action and humor are awesome, and the relationship between the two is excellent. You can just tell that this was as much of a fun ride making it as it is watching it. Johnny Depp steals it when he is on, you just are mesmerized by what might he do next. Its the subtleties that he adds that really makes him so good and fun to watch. Johnny and Armie play well off each other. Don't let the so called "professional "critics" make your choices. Let's face it critics get paid to over analyze and pick things apart. If you want a fun movie to see that certainly gives yours monies worth the movie fits the bill. Can't wait for the DVD and special features.
__label__10 Why The Lone Ranger (2013) is the best movie of the year (This movie review contains Minor Spoilers.) I fondly remember a much simpler time, when the age of radio programs was fading into memory and in that dying flicker the name that stood for justice. Like the television of that era, the good guys wore white and the bad guys wore black and twirled their mustaches. Director Gore Verbinski's Lone Ranger brings back those feelings in spades.In a summer full of flawed heroes, a narcissist tin man, an alien god whose rampage created untold casualties and an unnecessary romp through the least realistic zombie apocalypse based on the book about the most realistic one, it is refreshing to see a true hero on the big screen. Armie Hammer's Lone Ranger character isn't a good shot and he isn't particularly witty or good with the women. However, he isn't bad at these things either and, more importantly, his incredible moral fiber shows through in every scene and never waivers. Johnny Depp's Tonto dragged me to this movie, but Armie Hammer's Lone Ranger is why I'm going back to see it again.Speaking of Johnny Depp, lets be honest, I want to see Captain Jack Sparrow. Johnny Depp delivers with a character that is at the same time unique and yet strikingly reminiscent. Depp and Verbinski treat the Native American aspects of the movie with respect. Many of the jokes are based on taking old clichés and poking holes in them. Depp's makeup, as Tonto, in phenomenal. The movie opens with a display of makeup artistry, at the side-show/museum, that is almost unbelievable and it sets the tone for Tonto throughout.The story isn't a new one. It's the same story you will find in Zorro movies and spaghetti westerns. It's a classic tale of evil out of conquer the world and good trying to stop them with a dash of murder and revenge. The difference is that you have this shining knight of a character who refuses to seek revenge but instead insists on bringing the bad guys to justice.The villain is Butch Cavendish, played by William Fichtner, who begins as a classical disfigured and evil gunslinger and then reveals himself to be worse than that. Tom Wilkinson, who played the very memorable mob boss in Batman Begins, returns as the diabolical railroad tycoon Latham Cole who appears to be using Cavendish as his henchman until the truth comes out later.Like any modern (super) hero movie, the corny one-liners and silly names are used sparingly. Some of the Long Ranger's most famous catch phases appeared only once but they used them all and the crowd cheered each time. Must like the Man of Steel, the Lone Ranger is called by his character's real name, John Reid throughout the movie, giving the movie a less serial and more realistic feel.Silver, the Lone Ranger's white stallion, makes an appearance as a, suspected, supernatural element. Like all such elements in this movie they are carefully crafted so that the viewer may decide if they are real, or imagined. Silver, called only "horse" throughout most of the movie, takes on the role of C3P0 or Jimmy Olsen, and injects a good amount of humor into the movie when Depp's Tonto isn't stealing the show with his antics. These often involve the crow on his head whose origin is explained to justify his actions and serves to confirm or rebuke the strongest supernatural elements of the movie.Ruth Wilson plays the strong spirited Rebecca Reid, sought after by just about everyone she runs across until the smoke clears and her ending is revealed. Helena Bonham Carter plays Red Harrington, the one legged "harlet" whose artificial leg plays more than a passing role in the movie.For a movie that roams from fighting and acrobatics on horseback to atop trains, or both, the characters are always crystal clear and the backgrounds are always impressive. While there is the bare minimum of required unbelievable scenes, much of the movie is fairly down to earth action. A modern re-telling of an old story, many of the jokes and themes have been updated and while it tugs at the heart like the stories of old, it is shown in a modern frame.The most important element of this movie, for myself, was that they captured the spirit of the Lone Ranger. He had his friend Tonto, his horse Silver. He used silver bullet(s). He wore a mask and he stood for justice. He fought the bad guy without becoming one, or even needing to be a flawed hero. This may indicate the beginning of the end of the reign of the flawed heroes which started with the graphic novels The Dark Knight Returns and Watchmen.Mark Charke
__label__10 At first I was very nervous at the prospect of another Superman movie. Especially considering how horrible "Superman Returns" was; however, "Man of Steel" was a roller coaster of a ride as we not only witness Kal El's (Clark Kent's) origins, but we are shown Superman the way he is supposed to be.With expert direction brought to us by Zack Snyder and the assistance of Christopher Nolan, "Man of Steel" is packed full of action and emotional depth. No Superman movie has ever come close to achieving the atmosphere illustrated in the comics or the cartoon series until Zack Snyder's "Man of Steel". Sure it has a lot of action, but anyone who is a true Superman fan knows that Kal El's battles were almost always explosively long. Furthermore, the biblical metaphors were absolutely brilliant! As Superman was intended to be portrayed as a "Christ Like" figure, you see his journey in "Man of Steel" not all that much different from the New Testament. (Ex: When Clark Kent asked the priest for advice, behind him was a stained glass window of Christ praying to His Father before He was arrested and crucified. Next scene Clark Kent willingly submits himself to be arrested, ascends into the "heavens", and than descends in a crucified form) As Superman's story is not about becoming the best, but an immigrant facing the challenge of home VS heritage, we see Zack Snyder's portrayal of Superman reflect the "Man of Steel" originally designed by Joseph Shuster. Furthermore, who could forget such actors like Henry Cavill (Clark Kent),or Amy Adams (Lois Lane). Every actor in this movie left their mark, but I needed very little convincing to believe that Cavill was the face of Superman, or that Adams could be a persuasive Lois Lane. And although I am not particularly a fan of Michael Shannon, he was the perfect General Zod. With the level of ferocity Shannon provided, not to mention his one liners, this was by far his best role yet!This movie soared through my expectations and it will be the first time I ever give a Superman movie a perfect 10!
__label__10 By far the most epic and iconic visual experience for a comic movie. Totally recommended.
__label__10 This is one of the greatest comic book films of all time, and definitely a great film standing on it's own. Everything from the cinematography, the actors, the story, the action, the score, Zack has created something incredible.Ignore all the critics that bash this movie, instead listen to the fans.
__label__10 At first I was nervous to go see this movie. The critics hated it for the most part. Honestly, I can understand why. The story wasn't the focus of this movie. Zack Snyder's movies are all about visual interest. Nolan, I think, on the other hand is about story and realism.I was interested in the beginning to see how they would balance it out. I think critics had this idea it would be like the batman movies mixed with the Avengers. It's not really. It's a visual masterpiece. Well, maybe masterpiece is a strong word to use, but the visual special effects are amazing. I personally think they are the best I have ever seen. If you are going to see this movie, realize that you are going to see a movie with a ton of special effects and they are the thing Snyder cares about the most. The movie does a back and forth between the past and present day. Nolan really takes over the story when it shifts to the past. The past drives the current story and it does it well I believe. Without spoiling anything, the past shows why Clark Kent has become the man he is today and it doesn't hold much back. There is going to be a large battle scene at the end, the critics noted it was over 20 minutes long. It probably was, but I like to think it was well done. Critics, and a lot of people have an issue with the ending, once again not to spoil anything, it gets dark. I think people expected this to be a super kid friendly movie, it's not. I don't know what gave people this idea, but with Zack Snyder and Nolan working together, you had to expect it to be a darker, more realistic movie.Could the story have been better? Maybe. But for what that movie was, it was the perfect story for it. Could the special effects been better? No way. That's really what you're going for.It's a good story, nothing phenomenal, but a great looking movie. It's not a kids movie and you shouldn't expect it to be. It deals with how people have to make choices and the lines are never black and white and where that grey is, is what makes Man of Steel a great superhero movie.
__label__10 The 1980's Superman movie will always be a classic and should be. Man of Steel didn't just give us a more detailed and deeper origin movie. But made us feel exactly what it is to be Superman. The Blessing of being bullet proof and being able to fly can also be a curse. That he's not so invincible. That Despite his abilities he's just the same as you and me, And that is what makes him Our Superman. That despite being from a different planet he grew up in Kansas. he's as American as it gets.
__label__10 I am a big superman fan and luckily got a chance to see its early screening and believe me it was a brilliant movie. I had very high expectations from the movie and this film has completely exceeded my expectation. The visual effects and action sequences in the movie are actually the best I have ever seen. It easily overcomes The Avengers in every single way and will for sure emerge as a big blockbuster film at the box office. I don't know why the critics are saying that it focused more on the action than on clark kent's character. It was completely balanced in all ways. Its a must watch movie for every one and in my opinion its not only the best movie of this summer but also the best comic book movie of all time. And yes with a better score also put in by Hans Zimmer. 10/10
__label__10 All in all i have to say Man of Steel is a great film, saw the early screening and believe me this film is up there with TASM and Batman Begins. I expect the film to be divisive for the reasons being this isn't the Donner Continuity. Matter a fact most of the critics of this film kept referencing to the Donner Films every paragraph in their reviews. Let me get this out of the way right now and this is a sad reality to people who are fans of COMIC BOOK Superman. Nobody knows comic book superman a lot of people claim superman was always light hearted, that is BS when Jerry Siegel and Joel Shuster made superman he was a very serious character and wasn't a boyscout the popular idea of Superman being who he is ( which is slowly changing with MOS and post crisis version) is Silver Age and that's a fact a lot of fans don't want to admit. Man Of Steel does a amazing job and giving us Modern Superman better then Brandon Routh ever did in all honesty. His Superman was too selfish. Henry Cavill Superman serious demeanor is pure Kingdom Come superman and Golden Age Superman and Bruce Timm superman from the 90s( the original vision of the writers superman was supposed to be taken has a serious science fiction character has superman earliest adventure dealt with crime and corporate greed and a lot of his villains dealt with Transdimsional travel like some Bioshock Infinite stuff. Comics Code came along and we have Silver Age campyness. Anyways the special effects and the acting are solid. Superman is a bit to serious but i really don't care there are Superman in comics that are very serious like Kingdom Come Superman and to me Cavill Superman falls under pure Golden Age Superman personality.Russel Crowe was awesome in this film he has more screen time and everyone will agree this is the best Jor El ever in all honesty better then Brando IMO. Micheal Shannon has Zod was the only this that was disappointing but he was still good none the less and still way more threatening then the Mandarin of Iron Man 3 or the Real Mandarin i might add. DC at least showing that there villains are not throw away characters.Amy Adams has Lois Lane is great and i expect there relationship to expand more in the sequel to this film ( which will definitely be better since WB wants Star Wars Empire Strikes Back Writer and Lost Ark Indiana Jones film) I have a feeling that she is the best Lois Lane and why some people may think its a miscast it is not IMO it isn't.Kevin Cosner and Diana Lane are great in this showing a more realistic depiction or should i say NOT the Silver Age Superman's your destined for great things Pa and Ma Kent like we had but the more Golden Age Version when they were very over protective of Clark has a child.Action in this film rivals the avengers and the spectacle is absolutely incredible MOS fight scenes have Heart the critics are BS a lot cause i didn't see them say anything about Iron Man 3 fights don't you. Man of Steel has raised the bar on action in Superhero films and i expect the action will be toned down for the sequel a bit more cause of the possibility of Lex Luthor has the villain. Man of Steel for me has a Comic Book fan of Superman and love for DC and Marvel characters Man of Steel is a thrilling experience and will entertain Man of Steel will be the Anti Iron Man Fans love it audience love it critics pan it. But for me Man of Steel is a 9.8/10
__label__10 Man of Steel﻿ - I thought it's gonna be like The Amazing Spiderman at first. Same storyline, same plot, and just a little bit fresh look and technology touch up for a new millennial version of a superhero movie. Watching it for the first hour, I was about to give it a solid 4/5, until it went up to such perfection level of watching satisfaction. The storyline was quite impressive, without losing its originality but a better improvement in line. The plotting of the synopsis was done amazingly different than the other versions of Superman we ever saw in the theater. And characteristically, it was perfectly put on such great screenplay. I wasn't sure if Henry Cavill﻿ was a suitable role player with Amy Adams﻿ for the Clark-Loise characters, but through out the movie, they seemed like doing the best as it should. Clark is a good choice. And I can see there's somewhere in the scenes, Tom Welling is never left behind for the heroic role. He resembles him very much. And not to forget, there are some extra credit deserved to this movie, which somehow balanced the movie to its perfection. I even love the arts of its photography. It was full of drama and actions, emotions and everything else needed to be there in a great, legendary film should be. Everything was perfectly there, from the storyline itself, the plotting, the casting, the cinematography, the screenplay, the actions and all the effects, the plus and minus, and the everything. It was perfectly superb! If you're ever wanted for a great movie, this is one of your definite option! Almost there, full stars!
__label__10 I find it interesting that I grew up reading comic books yet didn't like the granddaddy of superheroes, Superman. Why?I found him silly, unrealistic, buffoonish. The four films starring the late Chris Reeve cemented my viewpoint. Leave him to the non-fanboys, I thought. They can have and keep him, I thought. What changed my mind?His appearance on his solo late 90s animated series, "Justice League: The Animated Series" and "Smallville". He has feelings, doubts, real internal conflicts. He's relatable! The bottle cap of that revelation happens to be the sixth film featuring Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster's iconic hero and the sixth film by madcap fanboy director Zack Snyder (the Dawn of the Dead remake, "300", "Watchmen", "Legend Of The Guardians", "Sucker Punch"). The less said about the 2006 misstep, the better...The birth of the baby, named Kal-El, precedes the destruction of his home planet Krypton, forcing his parents, scientist Jor-El (impressive Russell Crowe of "American Gangster") and ex-astronaut Lara Lor-Van (elegant Ayelet Zurer of "Darling Companion") to send him to Earth via rocket ship with the genetic codes of many Kryptonians. Fanatical military leader General Zod (manic Michael Shannon of "Boardwalk Empire") tries to stop this during a coup d'etat, but fails and he and his loyalists are sentenced to the Phantom Zone. Kal-El, meanwhile, is found and rechristened as Clark Joseph Kent by farmers Jonathan (Kevin Costner of "Silverado") and Martha Kent (Diane Lane of "Under The Tuscan Sun"), but his budding powers make him an outcast. So, as an adult (buff but noble Henry Cavill of "The Tudors" and "Whatever Works"), Clark leaves Smallville, Kansas, becoming a nomadic worker, until, as an Alaskan expedition grunt, he discovers a Kryptonian spacecraft that reveals his heritage and destiny. It's a good thing too as Zod and his group are freed from the Zone by their planet's end, and they see Earth as a new home. Uh-oh...If you try to compare "Man Of Steel" with the older films, you'll be disappointed. With a powerful yet down-to-earth, sometimes non-linear script by David S. Goyer and Chris Nolan (the Dark Knight trilogy) on his lap, Snyder throws away the camp and silliness of said films and, like the under-rated "Watchmen", matures the superhero archetype. Chris Reeve's Superman can't exist in the real, let alone post-Sept. 11 world; he looks dumb, phony, anachronistic. If you're the only powerful alien on a planet whose populace could fear and hate you, you're far from sociable, but you try to make a difference anyway. Mr. Cavill plays that role to total competence.He's lucky to be surrounded by a strong supporting cast, composed of Oscar winners and nominees and Emmy winners and nominees. Crowe has an middle-aged Obi Wan Kenobi tone that outdoes Marlon Brando's Jor-El; Costner (hauntingly good) and Lane (warm & sweet) are baby boomers with Norman Rockwell hints; Laurence Fishburne (the Matrix saga) is dead-on caustic as Daily Planet chief editor Perry White and Chris Meloni (Law & Order: SVU) is valiant as an Air Force colonel.Like Cavill, the next two actors have refashioned their characters. As Zod, Mr. Shannon gives an A-game performance, being a mad dog with an army unit, technology and a well-meaning but twisted goal to save his race, conflicting with Mr. Crowe's noble means. It's a Sam Peckinpah bromance on a galatical scale (the director was slated to direct the 1978 film but his rep went south).The other thespian's button-cute Amy Adams ("Junebug", "Enchanted") as Daily Planet news hound Lois Lane, who befriends our hero. Sure, she's independent and gutsy, but, thanks to the lack of camp, she's also smart, likable, relatable and realistic, not the inane harpy who demeans milksops. Someone to look out for is Antje Traue as Zod's icy, loyal right-hand lady, Faora-Ul. "For every human you save, we will kill a million more," she promises to Kal-El during a chaotic brawl in his hometown. Speaking of the battles, they are fast and destructive, echoing the "Dragon Ball" animated series. I think I lost a tooth or two...Hans Zimmer's day-and-night score is Oscar worthy. D.P Amir Morki captures rural tranquilness and urban destruction capably. SFX wiz John Desjardin's work inspires, especially Krypton's magnetic nanotech.Supposed fans will moan and bitch over this film, but maybe they really don't know Superman as they think they do as they dismiss his fellow heroes at DC Comics, let alone the whole comic book medium. The character's not Bugs Bunny, Mickey Mouse, Woody Woodpecker or Yogi Bear. Despite his powers, he's a person like the rest of us. That's what makes him a great hero, well deserving of a high quality summer blockbuster that's one of 2013's best.
__label__10 I was fortunate enough to be invited to a screening in Washington, DC prior to release. This production has what it takes. Great production, true to the story line, lots of nail biting and fascinating.It never felt like it was over two hours. I'd have to say that Walden did an amazing job of staying true to the storyline and that Disney's magic is back. I will recommend this movie and absolutely plan on adding the DVD to my library when it comes out. I may even go and pay to see it again.The only recommendation I have is to continue with the other 5 books. I've seen every one of the productions of The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe, and it took Disney to make it right. Now they've continued with Prince Caspian, and I'm anything BUT disappointed. As long as the storyline and production keep improving, it can only get better.
__label__10 Marvel's The Avengers (2012) is an awesome descent MCU superhero action flick that is spectacular and a real good one. The first time I watched it on my computer I loved it. I have seen this movie many times in the row I have this film on DVD and Blu-ray. The movie features an ensemble cast that includes Robert Downey Jr., Chris Evans, Mark Ruffalo, Chris Hemsworth, Scarlett Johansson, Jeremy Renner, Tom Hiddleston, Clark Gregg, Cobie Smulders, Stellan Skarsgård, and Samuel L. Jackson. Joss Whedon did a fine job directing the film and I loved it is definitely in my top 10 favorite MCU superhero films. In the finale battle in New York the moment right there.. WILL NEVER... EVER.. BE AS COOL.. LIKE THIS WAS A COMIC MASTERPIECE.. I don't even read comics, but I did superheroes when I was younger.. I have a feeling justice league will never have this cohesion... this team work.. and will never be able to recreate this feeling.Robert Downey Jr. does a good job as a Iron Man he has a lot of good moments when he talks with Loki. In the third act he has to fight Thor that was cool then in the third act he had to do a lot of stuff, did the final stuff to safe the world. He is very much star of the film, that is why he number 1 star of the film he was payed a lot of more money then the other actors did ,but he deserved it he did a good job. Chris Evans as Captain America was spectacular I love his character I love how he defended and safe those people in the restaurant against Loki's army I thought that was descent. He does kick some ass when Thor hits him he uses his shield when SHIELD's ship was attacked he and Iron Man were trying to fix the ship I loved that. Mark Ruffalo was okay as The Hulk I thought he was better than Edward Norton's Hulk at least that is my opinion. Chris Hemsworth I liked him as Thor he was great. Scarlett Johansson as Black Widow was fantastic what does she do? She deals with the Hulk and Hawkeye the evil Hawkeye which I think is great. Jeremy Renner I like him a as an actor he is cool, he is mostly the bad guy in the film till the third act. In the third act he did a lot of cool stuff, he is cool with arrows. Loki he did fine the actor did fine as the villain I like him and Samuel L. Jackson as Nick Fury did fine. In the film, Nick Fury, director of the peacekeeping organization S.H.I.E.L.D., recruits Iron Man, Captain America, the Hulk, and Thor to form a team that must stop Thor's brother Loki from subjugating Earth.The pacing to me I thought it was little boring and it was too long but the third act was really was fast paced and the movie interested how 6 superheroes become a team who turn in to Avengers I think there was a lot of action scenes in the film that were really well done. I like special effect, I had a lot of fun scenes Hulk punching Thor or punching Loki when he said is emperor. That was fun, the film it self had a lot of action it self's. It was entertaining, the CGI was really good, Robert Downey Jr. had a lot funny moments and hilarious dialogues. I have more enjoyed Captain America because he cared more about people and of course Iron Man he saved the world from Loki's invaders. I thought it was an alright and I love it. It is definitely my favorite MARVEL superhero movie.Admittedly the first half or so isn't nearly as epic as the final 30 minutes. And the plot isn't that original. But I got what I paid for with this flick, Awesome action with Earth's Mightiest Heroes kicking alien ass.The Avengers in my honest opinion was better than Man of Steel because right next year DC superman movie come out that I have hated it and I wish I could have get the money back. I am going to try and sell the movie out. Marvel's The Avengers (classified under the name Marvel Avengers Assemble in the United Kingdom and Ireland), or simply The Avengers, is a 2012 American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics superhero team of the same name, produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures. It is the sixth film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. The film was written and directed by Joss Whedon. I have reviewed 2 years the second movie twice and as a MARVEL fan I can say I have enjoyed this movie much more than Avengers: Age of Ultron. I am waiting now on Avengers: Infinity War and of course Spider-Man: Homecoming which is a spin off Captain America: Civil War like I said I have enjoy all three Captain America Films and I enjoy both Avenger films and I love Iron Man and Iron Man Three I am one of the fans that I liked that films. The rating I give is 10/10
__label__10 "The Avengers" brings together a group of extremely talented actors and epic superheroes, to create an action packed movie with hilarious banter laced into countless scenes. Superhero movies give actors a chance to play new characters with personalities they have never portrayed before. Chris Evans is the extremely passionate and kind hearted Captain America, while Robert Downey Jr is the tougher and sassier Iron Man. The film is very creative with introducing each character and later bringing them together. The villain, Loki Laufeyson, played by Tom Hiddleston, even shows his weak spots and is almost seen as part of the Avengers team. The actors have fantastic chemistry with each other on and off screen, and they make man- tights and capes look more fashionable than ever. The majority of the film is done by special effects, made by an amazing team. They transform New York City into a place for heroes, placing Tony Stark's towering house in the middle of the city. Even at the end of the film, the unsuspecting Tony Stark is willing to sacrifice himself for the good of everyone else. This is a wonderful movie to watch if you want to be thoroughly entertained while having your feeling played with at the same time.
__label__10 After all the films leading to this one we were promised the Avengers on screen and this film gave us that big time. This film sees a group of big personalities having to come together and defeat a mad man and his army from enslaving humanity. One of the most important parts of the build up to this film was Robert Downey jnr's performance as Tony stark/iron man, and he is just as awesome in this film. His character grows in all these films but he is still the narcissist that we love. Also Chris Evans as captain America was really important as he is the leader and comes across as the moral compass of the whole film but he isn't boring which is great for the character. The rest of the performances are great as well, first of all is the recasting of Mark ruffalo as Bruce banner/hulk and he was the biggest surprise in this film. He was great in both roles and the hulk has absolutely never been better then this film. Chris Hemsworth is back as Thor and this guy is absolutely seriously movie star and makes this character a great character full of personality. Scarlett Johansson returns as black widow and she is sexy and tough while also proving that she is also the best female in these superhero films around. Samuel L Jackson is back as Nick fury and he is great as the character and squeezes the most he can out of this great character. The one member of the team that isn't really developed is Hawkeye, he isn't really himself for the most of the movie but even then the last battle he becomes great. What is important in a film like this is having a great villain and Tom hiddlestone as Loki definitely succeeds at that. He is just so fun to watch and you buy that he could pull off all this destruction. Sometimes simplicity is best for a story and this is one of those times, it has happened before that a group of combustible elements have to team up but this film gets the most out of it and adds real drama to the film. The script is the best part of the film and the dialogue between the characters is what makes this film so enjoyable to watch because it makes all the characters feel unique and there own personalities. The style of this film is great, the action is all enjoyable and the film looks great but I have to mention the show stealer that is the incredible hulk. This is the best interpretation of the hulk and he looks better then ever and he is possibly the best character in the film. Overall this is one of my favourite films ever and this is a comic book fans dream.
__label__10 I'm sorry to say The Avengers isn't a good movie; it's a GREAT  MOVIE!!!! It's not only the best team superhero movie ever made, but it  may just be the best comic book adaption made period!  The Avengers is the culmination of what began in Iron Man; and  continued through The Incredible Hulk, Iron Man 2, Thor and Captain  America. It was only a few years ago that my son and I had just  finished watching Iron Man and as the credits were ending, Samuel L.  Jackson appeared on screen as Nick Fury and spoke to Tony Stark about  joining Avengers Initiativein that short scene, the framework for  potentially the greatest comic book movie of all-time had begun!   Director Joss Whedon, most known for the T.V. series Buffy The Vampire  Slayer, takes the foundation that was built in the prior films and  brings together the greatest team of superheroes in film history, The  Avengers: Iron Man/Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.), Captain  America/Steve Rogers (Chris Evans), Thor (Chris Hemsworth), Hulk/Bruce  Banner (Mark Ruffalo), Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson), and Hawkeye  (Jeremy Renner) as "assembled" by Nick Fury. Whedon's scripts usually  include clever banter, gripping action sequences and an air of mystery  and The Avengers is no different. Whedon has an utter love for comic  books, and it is proudly put on display in The Avengers.  The cast does a great job of bringing these iconic characters to life,  beginning with Robert Downey Jr. Unlike Iron Man 2, in which Downey  seemed to skate through scene after scene, Downey plays Stark almost  effortlessly, delivering his lines with relative ease allowing his  charisma, charm and smugness to shine through; Robert Downey Jr. IS  Tony Stark! Chris Evans' solidifies himself in the role of Captain  America. He was very good in his solo film, but truly owns the role  standing alongside Iron Man and Thor. Chris Hemsworth's Asgardian god  Thor has some incredible battle scenes and indirectly provides one of  the film's most funny moments. After being seriously underutilized in  Iron Man 2, Scarlett Johansson's Black Widow is provided a back-story,  which helps in developing the character and provides an opportunity to  prove she is much more than just a pretty face; she's as dangerous  psychologically as she is physically. I could envision myself enjoying  a beat-down at the hands (and feet) of Black Widow. The character I was  most concerned about being given little story and the least amount of  screen time was Jeremy Renner's Hawkeye; happily, he's not left by the  wayside and does a more than admirable job of developing the character.  Hawkeye stands alongside Robin Hood and Katniss Everdene (The Hunger  Games) as the best archers to grace the silver screen. I'd like to see  more of him in a film of his own. Mark Ruffalo, the most recent choice  to play Hulk, is far better suited to the role than Eric Bana (The  Hulk) and Ed Norton Jr (The Incredible Hulk). Ruffalo looks more the  part of the nerdy scientist Banner and plays the part without looking  angry in every scene. In The Avengers, the Hulk is at his most  impressive, both in his on-screen transformation and the violence he  displays when the opportunity calls for him to "hulk out". If any  character appeared to stand out a little bit more than the others, for  me it was the Hulk. Samuel L. Jackson's Nick Fury is finally more than  just the guy making surprise appearances. Fury is finally able to  stretch his legs some, and Jackson slides quite easily into the role.  Clark Gregg's Agent Caulson returns, and Cobie Smulders makes her  Marvel films debut as Agent Maria Hill, and she is a welcome addition.  The film's main villain is Thor's adopted-brother Loki, played by Tom  Hiddleston. You would think the part would be a difficult one to play  being opposite such powerful personalities and strong characters, but  Hiddleston does a fantastic job; the performance should not go  unnoticed, because it's one of the strong points of the film. Loki is  not a villain without purpose and Hiddleston comes across as a devious  mastermind without being cartoonish.  At a running-time of 2+ hours, The Avengers is well paced and time  flies by. The effects are top-notch, the acting is very good, and the  script drives the movie elevating its strengths. For viewers that may  not have seen any of the other films (and if so, why not!?!?), we're  provided just enough information to bring everyone up to speed without  feeling overdone. Whedon provides more than just a standard comic book  film, but a story with reason that's backed up with incredible action  and humor.   Although the film is filled with larger than life characters, none are  short changed; each character is given at least one great scene to work  with, and the opportunities don't go to waste. The film's finale  provides a deafening crescendo of action that is breathtaking. As usual  with Marvel films, be sure to stay around for the post credit sequence,  which provides a surprising reveal.  I went into The Avengers with unfairly high expectations, due to all of  those that were involved, as well as the films that came before it.  After viewing the initial trailers and not being blown away, I had set  myself up for disappointment. It was only a matter of minutes after the  film started that I was put at ease, and just minutes later when my  expectations were blown away. I never imagined that it was possible to  put onto the screen, what I was watching. I'm happy that Marvel had the  sense to keep these properties to themselves and to move forward with  these characters in the manner in which they did. Marvel Studios and  Disney are going to make a boatload of money off this film, and  deservedly so; because there's never been another movie made of its  caliber.  Grade: A+
__label__10 I was lucky enough to be included in the group to see the advanced screening in Melbourne on the 15th of April, 2012. And, firstly, I need to say a big thank-you to Disney and Marvel Studios.Now, the film... how can I even begin to explain how I feel about this film? It is, as the title of this review says a 'comic book triumph'. I went into the film with very, very high expectations and I was not disappointed.Seeing Joss Whedon's direction and envisioning of the film come to life on the big screen is perfect. The script is amazingly detailed and laced with sharp wit a humor. The special effects are literally mind-blowing and the action scenes are both hard-hitting and beautifully choreographed.While all of these things (script, action, special effects and so on and so forth) are important... it's no good having them spot on if you don't have a cast that just isn't right. But fortunately, for fans and for the actors involved, Whedon's cast not only work brilliantly together but are perfectly comfortable wailing on each other and threatening each other all day and night.The actors' performances in "Marvel's The Avengers" are simply captivating and there are many instances where we get a glimpse further into their characters pasts and innermost feelings. Robert Downey Jr. will have you in stitches. Scarlett Johansson will have you staring in disbelief as she winds her way through sticky situations. And Tom Hiddleston will have you simply shaking in your seat with fear.All in all, Marvel's The Avengers is a visual delight and I cannot wait to see it again, and again, and again. Marvel fans will not be disappointed, and something tells me that most of you will agree with me wholeheartedly.The Avengers, assembled and awe-inspiring. Ten out of ten.
__label__10 Saw the preview at the end of Thor back in 2011... had to wait almost a year to experience the global phenomenon first-hand. The theater experience wasn't something to forget.All in all, the title of this review says it all. 'Marvel's The Avengers' is quite possibly the greatest superhero movie in history. The combination of hardcore assassins Widow and Hawkeye, reclusive Banner, arrogant Iron Man, leader Cap and the Norse brothers Thor and Loki mixes itself together into a concoction of personalities and superpowers which guarantees to impress.Marvel has set the bar high for themselves. Since its release, only a select few superhero movies have compared to it. And all of them have been Marvel!
__label__10 After watching the film today, I decided to review this film because I am literally on the edge of my seat for the sequel and every time I wake up for university or for work, I view all three trailers and get even more excited and emotional for the film!I watched the film on 04/27/2012 when it was released in Scotland and for me to see all the heroes and supporting characters brought in from their respective films together into one film was dream come true for me. I always hoped for a Justice League film consisting of Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman, Green Lantern (John Stewart), The Flash, Hawkgirl & J'onn J'onzz, but I have to admit that DC are rushing things for their cinematic universe. From the introduction to each hero to their developing relationships to the funny moments between each character and to the amazing visual affects, there is not a dull moment in this film! The Avengers is FANTASTIC! We know who the characters are and their origins developed from the preceding films - Iron Man (2008), The Incredible Hulk (2008), Iron Man 2 (2010), Thor (2011) & Captain America: The First Avenger (2011). Seeing these superheroes uniting together to save the world in the big screen was extremely fun and boisterous. Many fans of the superhero genre want a balance of fighting, explosions as well as intelligent scenes and Joss Whedon and Zack Penn do just that with their vision and imagination. The scenes are entertaining and hilarious especially when the characters are interacting with one another during the film such as Captain America meeting Iron Man after the confrontation with Loki, Iron Man mocking Captain America and Thor, the chemistry with Bruce Banner is poetic in the S.H.I.E.L.D. Helicarrier conference room and finally, the scene between Thor and the Hulk is hilarious especially when Thor is sucker punched by the Hulk. Also, the scene when Iron Man thrusts the energy onto the shield of Steve Rogers to annihilate a Chitauri fleet foreshadows events in Captain America 3 or better now known as Captain America: Civil War. In addition, it's a shame that Edward Norton didn't return as Bruce Banner/Hulk, but Mark Ruffalo nailed the scenes in his first film in the role bequeathed to him by the former. Ruffalo portrays Banner in a phlegmatic manner managing to control his impeccable rage only to easily let it out when in the Hulk mode, his performance is AMAZING!!! The best part of the movie for me would have to be the moment when Tony Stark as Iron Man introduces himself as a team player near the climax - after being lambasted by Steve Rogers/Captain America earlier - when he intercepts the missile and takes it through the wormhole toward the Chitauri fleet destroying the mother ship. However, the stars of the film for me would have to be Robert Downey Jr. and Tom Hiddleston. Both actors are superb in their roles as Iron Man and Loki, respectively.Marvel and DC both have a variety of rich characters and even a brilliant number of story lines, however, in my eyes, Marvel will always be number one because they have implemented their films with careful planning and precision. In the end, when it comes to Marvel Cinematic Films, you will crave for more because of its awesomeness and we all know for a fact that Marvel will up their game and will ALWAYS deliver for their loyal fan base.
__label__10 "The Avengers" is the first 'team up' movie for the MCU combining Iron Man, Captain America, and Thor. Alongside with Black Widow, Hawkeye, Nick Fury, and of course, The Hulk. To fight the maniacal and oddly comical in all the best ways, Loki, Brother of Thor and part Frost Giant. And this movie is everything you could ever think you would want in a super hero collaboration film. Joss Whedon wrote and directed this film to perfection. With the team up of everyone being seamless and interesting with various conflicts throughout and the almost certain that they could never work together ever until the end. Each character feels used amazingly with comedy being brought in perfectly, drama at the perfect times, and a whole hell of a lot of action in this 143 minute film. With expanding on a lot of the small quirks of each character and the nail biting tension throughout the film done by the fantastic direction and great feel of this film. Joss Whedon put in all he could ever do in this film and executed it perfectly. The writing by Whedon is also flawless. When I first saw this film in 2012, I honestly thought these actors were real with how fluent and smooth their dialogue was combined with the A+ acting done too by each and every cast member, even the 'one scene' actors shown throughout. Not a single actor had any opinion in the writing of the film and with solely Whedon writing it, you can see how well of a writer he is and how smooth he can make the conversations in this film. Especially my favorite parts of the dialogue are the small on going jokes throughout the film with each character, it brings the light out of some of the darkest scenes and can make each and everyone as memorable as possible. I remember quoting this film like it was a religious text or something with how well written it is. The acting is once again perfect. Robert Downey Jr. plays once again a flawless Tony Stark with either his smooth and slick execution of every line, to him hiding snacks throughout the sets to add to his quirky character that the audience has grown to love and appreciate in the film. New Comer Mark Ruffalo in the MCU also kills it as Bruce Banner/Hulk with his uneasy performance and social awkwardness too. Everyone else, Chris Hemsworth, Chris Evans, Scarlett Johansson, Jeremy Renner, Samuel L. Jackson also do amazingly with their roles with a smooth balance of comedy and seriousness in each of their scenes. The casting in this series is still flawless and I don't want to change a single cast member with their respective roles. The Avengers is a fantastic movie that will be put down in history as one of the best superhero movies to ever exist and should deserve its popularity and praise for its technical accomplishment and storytelling milestone. The Avengers gets a 10/10
__label__10 Ever since the beginning of the film, I was so amazed and happy That I was at the premier of the movie. Very good acting from all the main characters and good acting from the rest. Great Directing and writing from Joss Whedon too. The cinematography was stunning throughout the whole film.This is a fun action packed film for the whole family to enjoy just like the rest of the Marvel movies but better. The special effects by far are the best for any Marvel movie. The Hulk Looks so much more real. By the way The Hulk made the movie even better. Also, DO NOT SEE THE AVENGERS IN 3D! See the film because you will not be disappointed even if you are not that interested into superhero movies. It has a lot of humor and love, so again SEE IT!
__label__10 This, friends, is the comic book movie that all other comic book movies wish they could be. It's the pinnacle, the ultimate, the surely unsurpassable achievement in its particular oeuvre, a grand adventure full of humor, action, tension, fan service and an undeniable pathos. For anyone fearing that all the hype – years and years worth of hype – might cheapen or otherwise overshadow the final outcome, you may at last be at ease. Because the JOSS WHEDON! AVENGERS MOVIE! is exactly as good as we all hoped it could be.Maybe even better.The Avengers, of course, are a superhero team made up of Iron Man (Robert Downey Jr.), Captain America (Chris Evans), the Hulk (Mark Ruffalo), Thor (Chris Hemsworth), Hawkeye (Jeremy Renner) and the Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson). Other heroes have come and gone amongst this happy few, in comic form, but here all you need to know is that this film serves as kind of a sequel to previous Marvel movies IRON MAN(both 1 and 2), THE INCREDIBLE HULK, THOR and CAPTAIN America, bringing the billionaire Tony Stark, the scientist Bruce Banner, the demigod Thor and the recently defrosted World War II veteran Steve Rogers together to fight against an invading alien threat, alongside spies Clint Barton (Jeremy Denner) and Natasha Romanov (Scarlett Johansson) and under the auspices of Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson), Agent of S.H.I.E.L.D.Man, it's awesome. AWE. SOME.Oh, it's by no means a perfect film. Whedon is perhaps just a shade too in love with S.H.I.E.L.D technology, and the weight of portent which is given to some truly innocuous lines – especially the final line – feels a little off-kilter. Flashing up a computer image of Natalie Portman's Jane (Thor's love interest from his movie) felt a little like an apology, and the shadowy government hacks who attempt to control Nick Fury are by-the-numbers backroom power players of the Cigarette Smoking Man-school, ruthless and annoyingly cliché.Everything else, though? Simply, outstandingly, without a shadow of a doubt incredible.Just for fun, let's talk acting. All our returning superheroes reprise their roles with ease, Downey Jr. once again a delight as the arrogant billionaire Stark and Evans stoic and earnest as the displaced Cap. The award for Most Improved has to go to Chris Hemsworth, whose Thor is given a chance to rock some deadpan wit here, and rock it he surprisingly does. Johansson, of course, is gorgeous and ass-kicking as ever in her Black Widow leather, but is happily also given new levels of intriguing backstory at which to hint and play out, and her friend Hawkeye is given somewhat more to do here than he was allowed in Thor, Jeremy Renner's relaxed performance once again worthy of my beloved marksman's bow and arrow. Clark Gregg's mild-mannered Agent Coulson is adorable in his hero worship; meanwhile our main antagonist in this film is Loki, Thor's resentful trickster brother once again played with consummate creepy cool by Tom Hiddleston.Oh, and hello again Gwyneth Paltrow as Pepper Potts! Aren't you funny and great?Of the newcomers, I will admit to having had some reservations about Mark Ruffalo's Bruce Banner, as I had been a true devotee of Edward Norton's turn in the role, but I am big enough to admit when I am wrong: he was terrific here as the mousey, mild-mannered science guy with a chip on his shoulder, and the uses to which his Hulk was put throughout the course of this movie have almost entirely changed my mind about his place in the Marvel Universe. It was that good. Elsewhere, How I Met Your Mother's Cobie Smulders, as an agent of S. H. I. E. L. D., did a lot with a little – enough to hope we see more of her lithe and loyal lieutenant character in AVENGERS 2.Indeed, after a rollicking, outrageous, hilarious outing like this one, who wouldn't already be eagerly awaiting a sequel? It is, unequivocally, the best comic book movie I have ever seen (and I've seen, well, all of them). More than that, it is my favorite movie so far this year – whew! I was so hoping BATTLESHIP wouldn't continue to hold that title for too much longer – and one I cannot wait to see again.Avengers assemble, they say? Audience assemble, I say! And assemble, and assemble, and assemble again(And make sure you stay through the credits for the now-expected next-movie teaser Buffy and Angel fans will be particularly happy, even if they don't quite get the somewhat obscure comic-y reference)-- This review first appeared in Geek Speak Magazine - www.geekspeakmagazine.com
__label__10 The Avengers movie must be a dream come true to everyone. Seeing these superheroes uniting together to save the world in the big screen. While the heroes' stand alone films doesn't have that enough action, this movie executes more of their super abilities. It's really fun and exciting. A lot of people will cheer to their favorite superheroes. This is what all fans and moviegoers want in Avengers. More fighting, more explosions, more smashing, and more fun. In the end, you will crave for more because of its awesomeness. The Avengers is simply marvelous.Our modern blockbusters are just full of explosions that makes no sense, bland characters, and too long runtime. The runtime here is long but it's necessary. The storytelling is quite simple as it gets. We already knew who these characters are. The best part is when they develop their relationship to each other. This happened mostly in the second act. These scenes are funny and entertaining. It's more entertaining when there's Robert Downey Jr. stealing the show. Of course, he will always be like this. His chemistry with Bruce Banner is wonderful. Two geniuses working together. Other than that, the rest of the performances were also good. Chris Hemsworth is just mighty enough as Thor and Chris Evans is cool enough as Captain America. Scarlett Johansson is probably the weak link here. She's still sexy though.Maybe the only problem here is the secondary villains. They are not as dangerous or as threatening as they suppose to be which makes it too easy for Hulk to smash them. But it doesn't matter because there's Loki stealing all of his scenes once again. Tom Hiddleston is simply fantastic as Loki. The action is pretty awesome. It's suppose to be awesome! The Hulk nails it in these scenes. It's exciting to see him smash stuff with glory. While there's Iron Man flying, Thor wielding his hammer, Captain America throwing his shield, and Hawkeye shooting with his archer. More explosions, just what everyone wants. It's fantastically cool and fun.There are still compelling moments and drama here but the main attraction of this film is the action and explosions. The film also cares about the characters which makes it reasonable for us to care about them and cheer to them. It's a rare kind of blockbuster these days. It has clever humor, awesome action, and really fun characters. It makes the Fans and Moviegoers happy and amazed. This is the kind of blockbuster that people should watch. This film is just cool and highly recommended to see this summer. Though, I still think the first Iron Man movie is the best of this set, but still, this is a big, fun experience you will have in the big screen.
__label__10 Ahoy, and so here we are in 2011 with another Pirate's adventure on the horizon. An adventure that contains fresh humor, intrigue, mystery and visuals, yet reminds us what we love so much about the original.Many critics complained that P2 and P3 were bogged down with sub plots, interweaving stories, and that it became to heavy for some to handle. Well, if thats how you felt, then you are going to love On Stranger Tides. It is a return to form in a sense, without feeling rehashed. Jack is forever brilliant as he goes on his search for the fountain of youth. However, Jack isn't alone. Penelope is brilliant as well, her charm and wit fit in perfectly to the Pirate's world. Less not forget the menacing foe, Blackbeard, who's retchidness is so vile that not once do you think to yourself "oh thats just Ian McShane".The Pirates themselves aren't only thing propelling this franchise to the next level. The visuals themselves are absolutely stunning. The water shots are a site to behold and the jungle scenes are lush and vibrant. These guys did 3D right! So, if you're looking for an adventure thats fresh and doesn't carry any of the same complaints as the last two, while still seeming charmingly similar, this should be your pick this summer!!!!
__label__10 Men in Black franchise includes 4 films, such as Men in Black (1997); Men in Black II (2002); Men in Black 3 (2012) and Men in Black: International (2019). This franchise was made from the popular Malibu/ Marvel comic series of the same title The Men in Black (1990-1991: author Lowell Cunningham).MIB is a fictional intelligence agency which work is to save the earth from bad aliens covertly. It also works as a kind of police for alien residents who camouflaged in human bodies.Men in Black: International (2019) is not only a UK branch story, but it is also about what happens after Men in Black 3 (2012) world. Thus it is a spin off, also it is a sequel in the same universe.Before reviewing Men in Black: International (2019), audience must see Men in Black 3 (2012). The latter is the best of the bests in the US HQ trilogy because of the protagonist Agent J (Will Smith ) 's emotional relationship with Agent K (Tommy Lee Jones ) is impressively reestablished at the ending. That is a surprise!Act 1 is Agent J's time travel to 1969 world to save Agent K from the alien fugitive Boris the Animal who killed Agent K by time traveling device. The inciting incident is disappearance of Agent K form 2012 world. Time traveling was a key feature of Men in Black 3 (2012). Act 1 ends when Agent J enters into 1969 era.Act2 is Agent J's arrest by young Agent K (Josh Brolin) during a confrontation with the antagonist Boris. The corse of persuasion of Agent K into the cooperation and mutual trust is a dramatic conflict in this part. At the mid point, Agent K still is skeptical but partially trusts Agent J to find Griffin who owns the ArcNet which is a Boglodite killer device. Act 2 ends when 2012 Boris teams up with 1969 Boris to kill Agent K. It is the most intensified phase of the conflict. Besides this, Agent J, K and Griffin realise that they must attach the ArcNet to Apollo11 to save the earth from Boglodites.Act 3 is a direct confrontation of both sides at Cape Canaveral. Agent K gets rid of Boris at the end. However the most important thing is that Agent J realises that his father is killed by 1969 Boris and Agent K then becomes his protector and future recruiter. Agent J's moment of truth is created via 2012 and 1969 confrontations with two Boris. What deeply impressing audiences is synthesis of Agent J, K relationship of 1969 and 2012. The 1969-2012 conflicts created and depicted their inner relationship and history cinematically.This emotional engagement to the relationship between Agent J and K is why this film is so successful not only in box office, but also in creativity.
__label__10 Although I really enjoyed the first and second one, I didn't want to watch the third one because pretty much everyone I knew said it was disappointing. Well I watched it today and was so disappointed in myself for giving too much credit to what other people think over what Peter Jackson presented through the film's two predecessors. The film was really fast paced and didn't have any dragging lagging boring scenes. There was always something going on that had my full attention, not to mention very emotional and memorable ones that were hard to find in films that I've watched over the past 2 years. Everyone comes from different backgrounds so obviously not everyone's going to like or dislike the same movie, but I thought this one really had depth and I regret not seeing it in theaters. Peter Jackson's films only get better and better IMO.
__label__10 I have read the Hobbit twice. I love the LOTR trilogy of films, they're my favorite films ever. I was initially disappointed with the first Hobbit film because my expectations were set so incredibly high from the first three. Having watched it again recently, I can see that it's a great film. A lot of people are upset with this film because it isn't the book. All I have to say is that books and films are entirely different art forms. If you cut and paste the hobbit onto a movie, you get a very bad film. Anyone can be a critic, not anyone can bring one of the most beloved stories of all-time to life on the big-screen. What Peter Jackson has done, along with all of the very talented people who spent years and years of their lives making these film, is nothing short of brilliant. We should be thanking this man for what he has done, not criticizing every little thing we didn't like about the films. You can't please everyone. Also worth noting...The Hobbit was written for kids and it's pretty silly a lot of the time. The trilogy wasn't written for another 20 YEARS and the whole idea of Middle Earth as we know it today didn't exist. So had Tolkien known he was going to make this little kids book into an epic saga, it's not a stretch to think that he would have made some changes to it. In short, the movies HAD to be different from the books to make them entertaining, cinematically compelling and to keep them true to the spirit of what MIddle Earth and the LOTR trilogy are today. Jackson, and all of the people working on these films are the most passionate fans of Tolkien you could ever meet, heck, they spent the better part of 2 decades making 6 films for us to enjoy. So I am going to say, BRAVO!! Peter Jackson!! Okay, but seriously...I like Tauriel but the whole deal with her and Kili was very awkward. The whole romance is smothered on pretty thick. But I'm not going to let that ruin a fantastic film and a fantastic trilogy for me, and I hope you don't either!! Don't expect the book, don't expect anything and you will have your mind blown. :)
__label__10 The movie got plot, action, emotions and above all the panorama of all the other middle earth movies. Martin is great, Richard is amazing as Thorin and every character has performed greatly. A fitting and a worthy bridge between the hobbit and the lord of the rings franchise with an epic and a thrilling battle sequence finish. Here comes The biggest blockbuster this year which is going to revolutionize film making. Watch it in the HFR rate, it is more spectacular and hold the audience to the edge of their seats. Botfa will serve both the fans and others as it got everything a movie must have even though it is high in action. The chemistry between actors is also spot on.
__label__10 Hardcore fans of Sam Raimi's Spiderman can rail all they want to. THIS version of the Marvel Comics superhero, Marc Webb's THE AMAZING SPIDERMAN (2012) is BETTER! While I really did like Raimi's 2002 initial Spidey flick, I absolutely loathed the incredibly overpraised 2004 sequel. Thankfully, there is a bit more debate about which film is actually better, because I've always been in the small camp that believes Spiderman 1 is better than Spiderman 2. Part 2 regressed all the good will that Raimi built up in 1. And there is pretty much universal agreement that 3 isn't very good. But I still contend that 2 SUCKS. The huge difference that I already see in this 2012 reboot that is better than anything from the 2000s trilogy is that while the Raimi flicks TRIED and FAILED to have emotion and depth in telling the story of Peter Parker/Spiderman, Webb's reboot actually SUCCEEDS! TAS stars the pretty "amazing" newcomer Andrew Garfield (who was superb in The Social Network) as the well-known iconic character of Peter Parker/Spiderman. Peter is a bullied nerd whose parents mysteriously left him with his Uncle Ben and Aunt May (superbly played by acting legends Martin Sheen and two-time Oscar winner Sally Field) as a child.Peter's father was a brilliant scientist working on cross-genetics technology that allows an organism to cure and re-generate itself by merging with another. Peter, a novice photographer who inherited his father's science acumen, accidentally stumbles upon some of his father's work in his Aunt and Uncle's attic, including a formula that solves the cross-genetic puzzle that his father's former colleague Dr. Curt Connors (sublimely played by Rhys Ifans) has been trying to solve for years. After sneaking into the Oscorp facility and passing himself off as an intern, Peter snoops into a lab full of test subject spiders, one of which latches onto him and bites him, giving him spider-like abilities: strength, speed, elusiveness, scales, web-shooting.Connors works for Oscorp, whose founder and leader Norman Oscorp is dying and in need of a cure, and so Connors is trying to use the cross-geneticism to accomplish this. With Peter's help, the puzzle is "solved" and Connors ends up using himself as the first human test subject as he has only arm, which becomes regenerated, but it also has enormous side effects, transforming him into The Lizard, Spiderman's first enemy.During this time, Peter, caught up in his work with Oscorp and bemoaning his parents' abandonment, selfishly chooses to ignore a robbery, which inadvertently leads to his Uncle Ben's death, so Peter initially uses his newfound powers to go an a rampage to find his Uncle's killer as he stalks the streets of New York on a nightly basis, bringing lowlife criminals to justice.A romance develops between Peter and his fellow high-schooler, the equally scientifically inclined Gwen Stacy (played with exquisite charm and maturity by the gifted Emma Stone). The Peter-Gwen relationship is really the heart of this film. Very beautiful and engaging. In addition to his Aunt and Uncle, Gwen actually gives Peter a purpose and direction. Even though in virtually every modern superhero film, the girlfriend always seems to find out the secret identity, this is the first film that I think does it in a truly genuine, clever, mature, and natural way, and not just for shock value or cheap effect. I dare say that the romantic aspect is really the MAIN reason why this film works, whereas in Raimi's flicks, I couldn't wait for the "romantic" parts to come and go to get to the action! Credit really must go to Garfield and Stone for having incredible chemistry and being terrific actors. The Raimi films are really juvenile by comparison when it comes to the realistic love story in TAS. Special mention should also go to legendary comedian Denis Leary, who does an extremely effective and refreshing turn as Gwen's father Police Captain Stacy, injecting the character with his trademark sarcasm, but also coming across as very commanding.Another thing this film does is that it literally builds Peter from the ground up as a hero, making him learn the hard way through attempts, failures, experiences, pain, loss, and gain. Even many times when Peter is wearing the suit, he still acts very human and down-to-earth. He has to LEARN how to be a hero by still using his own instincts and common sense. It's not just about looking cool scaling walls and kicking ass! Spiderman isn't Superman! The film also stages the action as realistic as possible, with a healthy dose of CG effects, of course. But, here, unlike in Raimi's films, every action scene makes sense and we get to see how Spidey must use his webs on ACTUAL surfaces! Not just magically touching the sky, the webs hit just about everything in sight: buildings, cars, windows, and even other people! Garfield is simply superb as the awkward, gifted teen-aged Peter Parker, who has led a tragic existence, but finds a purpose through the memory of his parents, his aunt and uncle, Gwen, and the innocent citizens of New York. I usually think sequels suck, but I patiently await the sequel to his underrated, under-appreciated, extremely compelling and original superhero flick!
__label__10 SPOILER WARNING:let me make one thing clear the original spider-man movies never got it right, spider-man was not this punk little man who takes the heat from everybody he comes across and makes dumb statements like poetry quoting and crying, and in every film he was the same person when he puts on the mask and takes it off, hes never funny hes never doing anything science related and the ending villain fights are all the same. The villain comes, he threatens spider-mans girlfriend, they fight for a bit, and the villain kills himself. the movies rush any accuracy it was going for like making him spider-man after he graduates and giving him Mary Jane before Gwen, and don't get me started with the green goblin. making him the goblin before you show the power hungry business man what where they thinking? But when i saw this film i cloud have never been this happy since the dark knight, its not better than the dark knight or its equal, but just as the dark knight finally made a batman film I've been waiting for, the amazing spider-man did the same with spider-man, it made some changes necessary for it to be a movie while keeping true to its source material its the Peter Parker I've been waiting for, its the girlfriend I've been waiting for and hes funny hes smart his body looks like a spider rather than a sumo wrestler and the bad guy is serious, and the ending fight is different like when Parker warns his girlfriend that the lizard is coming instead of being kidnapped she helps people and uses a blow torch to fight him off, and the side characters are developed not so many throw away characters, so yeah i love this movie i want to see where they take it next.
__label__10 "Spoiler Warning Just to be Safe!!!" I liked the original three Spiderman films as much as anybody, if not more, but I really feel like they did an amazing job with this reboot. I may be in the minority, but I feel like this film did a great job at handling Peter's change from nerd to hero. Every character in this film felt human, and every actor did a fantastic job with their respective characters. A lot people keep comparing this to the original three films, and even more are saying that they should of just made a fourth film instead of reboot...I disagree. This film didn't reinvent the story, nor did it switch it up much but what it did do was make the characters more relatable and made this A lot closer to the comics, although it still isn't exactly like the comics. One of my main gripes about the original Spiderman film was a petty one, I'll admit that, but it got addressed and was fixed in this one. That would be the fact the Parker actually has to make his web shooters in this one whereas in the original the spider bite gave him his power to shoot webs. Now for the villain...while The Lizard obviously has nothing on The Green Goblin, I feel like he was a great choice for the film. While, yes Goblin is iconic, I feel that he should be the main focus in the movie he appears and not given a side role for over half the movie which they would of had to do in an origin story such as this one. A lot of people were upset about the CGI limiting The Lizar's movement,and I can honestly say it didn't bother me one bit. In fact I would prefer the CGI over some guy running around in a lizard costume...that wouldn't be very menacing now would it? In conclusion, I feel like this reboot was justified and in my humble and honest opinion proved to be BETTER than any of the original three Spiderman films, except for possibly the second one... Cannot wait for TSM2 to come out!
__label__10 I watched the film expecting the worst and I was surprised. The film opens in cinematic fashion with a voice-over by Eva Green explaining dust and parallel worlds. I think it was digestible for anyone who is a non-familiar. Next we move into our own world, the true Oxford of London. Then in a seamless and beautiful effect, a wave of light shimmers across the screen, and we enter Lyra's Oxford like something out of Doctor Who. It's a visually stunning opening that suggests great things lie ahead. Next we are thrown into a wild children romp like something out of Lord of the Flies, with Lyra, Roger and pals against the Gyptian kids. And here enters the star of this movie - Dakota Blue Richards. From the start to the end she perfectly embodies all the cheek, all the inquisitiveness, all the curiosity, all the fight, all the courage and all the heart of Lyra. I think she is the heart of the movie and the best thing in it. In the Oxford section of the story is some of the best scenes in the movie. No big action sequences just intimate moments between the characters. Lyra and Rogers respect for each other is made abundantly clear. Daniel Craig is on superior form as he presents his findings at Jordan college. And Mrs Coulters entrance and icy exchange with the Master, sent chills down my spine. Kidman delivers the line, "Let me deal with Asriel" with such unbelievable venom. Nicole Kidman has been burdened by a few flops recently. I can report the iconic actress is back where she belongs. She is sinister and stunningly beautiful in equal measure. I thought the movie was going down a path of perfection right up until Lyra's escape scene. This is where the story starts moving very quickly. To illustrate my point; Lyra runs away, gets attacked, is saved by the Gyptians, asks the Gyptians to take her North and its all aboard the ship in about the space of 15 minutes. This is all very exciting and full of adrenaline but as a book fan, i don't understand why they are in such a hurry. The movie continues to move along at a quick pace barely giving you time to breath. Its really a good thing and a bad thing. You could say it's a good thing because as a result it holds your interest. However non book readers would be easily lost if they decide on a 2 minute toilet break. I'm a fan of thrillers so I like frantic and quick paced, however in the case of this movie it would have been nice if they had just slowed things down now and again, because like the Oxford scenes proved, intimacy between characters is Weitz strong suit. I also thought there where scenes missing, like it was filmed to be longer, but either by Weitz hand or by New Lines, some scenes where lost. One such scene is Lyra crossing the Ice Bridge. People who have read the book will know that Lyra crosses the bridge in pursuit of Lord Asriel and Roger. In the film this bridge now leads to Bolvanger. But it was evident to me that when they filmed the scene, it was still leading to Lord Asriel and was intended as a farewell scene to Iorek. Overall the scene I loved the most was the Bear Fight. Though I had one complaint. While the animation of Iorek and Ragnar is astounding, unfortunately a few of the surrounding bears who watch the fight appear to have been rushed and not given the same time as Iorek and Ragnar. Though most of the time your attention will be focused on the fight. All the Oxford scenes are pure perfection, the scene of Lyra riding Iorek and finding the severed form of Billy Costa is brief but chillingly effective, the battle at Bolvanger which is suitably brutal and action packed and the final scene. While I still missed the books climax, the movies end is still satisfying. On board Scoresby's balloon we are treated to a heart wrenching scene between Lyra and Roger. Roger exclaims with all his sincerity that he would travel to the ends of the world with Lyra, and Lyra says just let them try and stop us. Book familiars will know why this is heart wrenching, because we all know Rogers fate. The films conclusion worked because the re-union of Lyra and Roger was emotionally satisfying, but I think the books climax would have lifted it to greater strenghts. What I didn't like; it was too short, Kidman and Craig don't really get enough screen time, Mckellens voice, rushed at times, evidently missing scenes and the Magesterium just isn't sinister enough. Its a fantastic fantasy adventure that will be enjoyed by most. Its just aggravating knowing that it could have been even better. I also think it is infinitely better than both Narnia and Potters first cinema outings. How - Well the Daemons are so much more full of life than the talking creatures of Narnia. If you have a good eye you will notice that the Daemons are rarely ever static or simply shot fillers in a scene. They are alive. The original material of the book is much better realised and visualised than Potter. But they are not the most important reasons. For me it is the young lead(s) that makes the difference. The Potter trio were not great and the Narnia kids were agonising. But Dakota Blue Richards Is excellent. She is the heart and soul of it.FINAL VERDICT: A hugely enjoyable, entertaining movie,astounding visual effects, perfect performances and action packed. If it had been 30 minutes longer, book ending kept , more screen time for Kidman and Craig and less meddling from New Line, it would have been a masterpiece!!4/5 8/10
__label__10 It is obvious from the very beginning that New Line interfered with the overall formula of the story. The book/movie puzzle is nearly complete, but a few pieces are still missing... And NO, it does NOT promote atheism, for the LAST time!First off, it opens up in our world, with Eva Green giving a brief description of Dust and other worlds. It's useful, especially for non-fans. Then transitions into Lyra's Oxford. The beginning has some of the most memorable scenes, if not best scenes, of the film. My reasoning is not because of action, but of the pure heart of it. Sure, it strays some from the book, but book/movie translations have never been perfect, just ask a potter fan. The first hour is basic character development, and wraps you completely into the world of Lyra's Oxford. The movie does this effectively, and the daemons are so full of life it's like their real! Don't get me wrong, the A-list actors are great, despite short screen time, but the daemons steal the show. Not just the daemons, but the animals as well. Iorek, for example, is one of the most proud, strong characters i've ever seen. It fits the book's vision of him perfectly, if not better. Now, more to the plot of the film, Lyra leaves for the North with the beautifully malevolent Mrs. Coulter after Roger disappears, and escapes after finding her to be the leader of the Gobblers. Yes, Gobblers, in the trailer Lyra said 'magisterium', rest assured, it's gobblers in the film. also, it's 'alethiometer' in the film. You fans can let the weight off your shoulders. After leaving Mrs. Coulter, she is attacked, then saved by the gyptians. She pleads with them to go north, to save the kids at bolvangar, and winds up on the boat, all within a short screen time. It seemed fast-paced, but not so much as to seem rushed. In the book, it was fast-paced as well, and it was properly transitioned. When she finally reaches the north, she hires the panserbjorne, or armoured bear, Iorek Byrnison, in some of the most visually satisfying scenes of the film. As I said, Iorek was crafted wonderfully, and the voice actor did an excellent job of capturing his power. In the next half hour, Lyra's at bolvangar, after crossing the bridge, they have the battle there, save the kids, yadda yadda. soon she's with Iorek, after tricking Ragnar, not Iofur, and the two bears fight in another visually satisfying scene. The movie soon ends with her and roger being reunited in an emotional finale. Yes, the last three chapters were cut out, but it didn't take away from the movie. The good news is that we'll see those cut scenes in the Subtle Knife, because its confirmed they've started filming. Because they've invested so much, they can't possibly not do a follow up. The Good: Satisfying, visually, mentally, metaphysically (whatever that means) follows the book pretty well. Actors are great, world is full of life. Lyra's the heart of most scenes. Overreacting religious groups will have nothing too complain about with this movie. it's relatively clean. Guess they'll have to boycott I Am Legend instead, for it's post-apocalyptic views....The Bad: Does seem a bit rushed at points, could've slowed down during the fast paced latter half of the movie. Magisterium wasn't dark enough. A few backgrounds feel generic. Obviously, some beloved scenes in the book didn't make the final cut, who knew??? Overall: the best fantasy film making around, it looks like New Line has another hit on its shoulders. Definitely worth a watch.
__label__10 If the LORD OF THE RINGS trilogy cemented Peter Jackson as a director of the highest order and made him the new king of the world, KING KONG seals his position as a Director and eliminates any trace of doubt that he may have been a one hit wonder.Bringing what has to be one of the most known and greatest adventure story into a new configuration, and doing so successfully, is a tremendous gamble. Dino de Laurentiis tried to do so thirty years before, and while the film is watchable, it was considered a major disaster. An unrelated sequel, KING KONG LIVES, proved even worse. Peter Jackson, who has called KING KONG the reason he decided to get into film-making, wanted to make this film before LORD OF THE RINGS was thrown into production, but circumstances prevented this in happening, and thus his career went into high gear as we now know. Maybe it's just as best that things went this way: the sensitivity and emotional power that his saga of Middle Earth makes its way into the Modern Age and elevates this incredible action-packed adventure into the spiritual heights that its climactic sequence requests.The argument, which resembles a massive Stephen King novel in epic proportion and in the way it introduces each of its characters, is as follows: Carl Denham (Jack Black, channeling Orson Welles) is trying to get his movie off the floor, but producers aren't quite backing him up with his latest project which is to be set in the distant Skull Island. On top of this, leading ladies are scarce, and one who would have been available (Fay, in a nod to the late Fay Wray) is working for an RKO production. Ann Darrow (a radiant, multi-faceted Naomi Watts) is a vaudeville performer who is nearly destitute: the theatre where she works has closed and she is practically stealing to eat. Darrow and Denham cross paths in the Depression era Times Square, and envisioning her as his muse, he convinces her to join his production team as his lead actress. At the same time, Denham bamboozles playwright Jack Driscoll (Adrien Brody) to join his team as screenwriter, and with Captain Englehorn (Thomas Krestchmann) on helm, off they sail to Skull Island (while the entire crew believes they are heading to the more exotic location of Singapore).As they arrive they get glimpses of the island's forbidding nature: stone faces in the style of Christmas Island's, but savage and menacing, are all over the place, and the island at first seems deserted. A little girl catches their attention and in trying to ingratiate themselves to her they are assaulted by bloodthirsty savages that all but decimate their crew and capture Darrow for the purpose of sacrificing her to (whom they believe to be) the ruler of the island, a twenty-five foot gorilla named Kong (a brilliant Andy Serkis). Not wanting to leave Ann abandoned in the island the crew comes back to rescue her and in the process discover that Kong is the least of their troubles: the island is infested with prehistoric life.It's at this point when KING KONG bursts into non-stop action and Peter Jackson pulls out every hat trick into an hour of chase sequences and truly gory moments involving gigantic insects and man-eating worms. The only moment when the action in the forefront seems somewhat divorced from the background is the sequence where the entire crew faces a stampede of brontosauruses and raptors, but even then it is mind blowing in its sheer scope and is only the set-up to what will be the film's finest hour and the very reason moviegoers know Kong: the return to New York City and the inevitable, symbolic climax atop the Empire State Building in which the New World clashes with the Old World.Even so, KING KONG is equally excellent in establishing its mood in four quiet moments. Who could have thought Ann could charm a beast like Kong? Here is the fulcrum of the story, not a love story but a story of kindred spirits. Ann, after fighting Kong, wins him over with her vaudeville act seen at the film's introduction. Witness his facial and body language: Kong is not a beast but an overgrown child full of wonderment and laughter at seeing her dance. Later, after a physically exhausting moment when Kong fights off three T-Rexes, both share a sunset atop a cliff, mirrored in the sunrise they witness, together, at the Empire State Building later on. But by far, the most magical moment is one in which Kong, in New York, slides through a frozen lake in Central Park, Ann in tow, both laughing. Genius at its best. Kong at his most tender.KING KONG is a testament to movie magic that action films, even those which remake classics, can benefit from an emotional center. In reconstructing what was a one-dimensional story from its 1933 version with his evolving Ann Darrow's relationship with Kong from hostage to friend and even kindred spirit who sees the beauty within the beast, his version is the more complete, and its length brings the rewards of a fascinating film. I only imagine what he would do in re-creating the world of THE WIZARD OF OZ despite the shrieks of purists who would see such a thing as celluloid blasphemy, forgetting that remakes are necessary, and if done with an expert vision, can create transcendental beauty. And this is absolute beauty.
__label__10 Uh-oh, 45 minutes in and no sight of the gorilla. It's 1933, and to make his movie masterpiece, producer Carl (devious) has lured actress Ann (fetching) and screenwriter Jack (heroic) onto a ship bound for exotic climes. The crew - grizzled captain, philosophical first mate, grubby cook, callow cabin boy - reckon that Carl is leading them into trouble. And so he is.So far, so Titanic. But fear not, for as soon as the boat slams into the mythical Skull Island, all hell breaks loose. First, hostile natives snatch Ann because she'd make the perfect sacrifice for their simian god. Enter the big fella... he's 25 feet of ladykilling silverback, and boy does he take a shine to Ann. Then it's a hair-raising, bone-jarring race through the uncharted jungle for both Kong - who's desperate to hang on to his blonde prize - and the rescuers, led by Jack.Never mind Never Land, this is Never-Go-There Land. It makes Jurassic Park look like Wimbledon Common. Apes aside, the place is swarming with angry and enormous beasts causing snapping, flapping, stomping, chomping, falling, squalling, creepy-crawly carnage. But amidst it all Carl (clearly mad) has a great idea. Why not capture Kong and take him back?Quite simply, this is the most spectacular, exhilarating and marvellously sustained hour of action adventure I've ever seen... But is there anything left for the final act? Hell, yes.One wrecked theatre and a little mayhem on Broadway leads us up the Empire State building for the dizzying, chest-beating climax. It won't do anyone with a fear of heights any favours whatsoever - and everyone else's fingernails will be burrowing through their chair arms as they will Kong to hang on.Technically, the production is spectacular on every level, from the wilds of Skull Island to the bustle of 30s' Manhattan. But Jackson's handling of the bond between Kong and Ann is equally impressive. It's a key element, and what could have been laughable is actually something that even cynics could buy into. That's because as much care has gone into Kong's character as his presence. His expressions gel wonderfully with Naomi Watts' committed performance - and she's so much more than just a swooning damsel-in-distress. Fay Wray was a game gal and all, but she never had a giant centipede crawl in her mouth.So what if Jack Black isn't quite Machiavellian enough to convince in his role and that the first hour is slightly draggy and prone to daft speechifying? One bit of miscasting and a deliberate beginning are but tiny scars on what is a truly magnificent creature.I'm still dumbstruck. Kong's awesome. Kong rules. Bravo, Peter Jackson, bravo.
__label__10 Every once in a while the conversation will turn to "favorite movies." I'll mention Titanic, and at least a couple people will snicker. I pay them no mind because I know that five years ago, these same people were moved to tears by that very movie. And they're too embarrassed now to admit it.I just rewatched Titanic for the first time in a long time. Expecting to simply enjoy the story again, I was surprised to find that the movie has lost none of its power over these five years. I cried again.... in all the same places. It brought me back to 1997 when I can remember how a movie that no one thought would break even became the most popular movie of all time. A movie that burst into the public consciousness like no other movie I can recall (yes, even more than Star Wars). And today, many people won't even admit they enjoyed it. Folks, let's get something straight -- you don't look cool when you badmouth this film. You look like an out of touch cynic.No movie is perfect and this one has a few faults. Some of the dialogue falls flat, and some of the plot surrounding the two lovers comes together a little too neatly. However, none of this is so distracting that it ruins the film.Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet are wonderful. Leo is one of the fine actors of his generation. Wait 'til you see him in Gangs of New York before you call him nothing more than a pretty boy. Kate Winslet was so strong in this film. The movie really was hers, and she held it together beautifully.James Cameron managed what many believed was impossible by recreating a completely believable Titanic. The sinking scenes were horrific, just as they were that night. How anyone can say the effects were bad is beyond me. I was utterly transfixed.This film is one memorable scene after another. Titanic leaving port in Southampton. Rose and Jack at the bow, "flying". "Iceberg, right ahead!" The screws hanging unbelievably out of the ocean. The screams of the doomed after she went down. And that ending that brought even the burliest man in the theater to tears.The music, which has also been a victim of the film's success, was a key ingredient. James Horner's score was simply perfect. And the love theme was beautiful and tragic. Too bad Celine Dion's pop song version had to destroy this great bit of music for so many.I confess, I am a Titanic buff. As such, I relished the opportunity to see the ship as we never got to see it -- in all its beauty. Perhaps watching it sink affected me more than some because I've had such an interest in the ship all my life. However, I doubt many of those I saw crying were Titanic buffs. I applaud Cameron for bringing this story to the masses in a way that never demeaned the tragedy. The film was made with such humanity.Another reviewer said it better than I ever could: Open up your hearts to Titanic, and you will not be disappointed.
__label__10 Back in 1997, do I remember that year: Clinton bans cloning research, the unfortunate death of Princess Diana, the Marlins won the world series and a woman gave birth to septuplets. This was also the big year in the release of Titanic, one of the biggest films of all time: a tale about the ship of dreams, about a boy and a girl who fall in love but are torn apart by their social class and at the height of their emotional commitment the ship meets with disaster. I don't think anybody could have expected Titanic to be as HUGE as it was, the movie was bigger than life and had millions of fans, 85% of them being teenage girls, I was 12 years old at the time, and of course saw the movie multiple times. It was the film that made me believe that the love that Jack and Rose shared was so real and beautiful. At the time I felt that Titanic could do no wrong, of course I grew up and didn't watch the film since I was 14, a couple years ago I saw the film on DVD for 5.99 and figured that it was a good price and to see what I thought about the movie now. Was it worth the hype? Was it really the best movie of all time? Was that Leonardo's real nose? OK, I know that's silly to say, but I did re-watch the film. Being completely honest here, Titanic is a great movie, it delivered in romance, humor, disaster, emotions and took us on this incredible maiden voyage.The film starts with Brock Lovett and his team exploring the wreck of the RMS Titanic, searching for a necklace set with a valuable blue diamond called the Heart of the Ocean. Unsuccessful, they instead discover a drawing of a young woman wearing the Heart of the Ocean, dated the day the Titanic sank. 101-year-old Rose Dawson Calvert learns of the drawing, and contacts Lovett to inform him she is the woman in the drawing. When asked if she knew the whereabouts of the necklace, Rose Calvert recalls her memories aboard the Titanic, revealing for the first time that she was Rose DeWitt Bukater. In 1912, the upper-class 17-year-old Rose boards the ship with her controlling fiancé, Cal Hockley and her desperate for money mother, Ruth DeWitt Bukater. Distraught and frustrated by her engagement, Rose attempts suicide by jumping from the stern. Before she leaps, a drifter and artist named Jack Dawson intervenes who convinces her not to jump. Jack and Rose strike up a tentative friendship as she thanks him for saving her life, and he shares stories of his adventures traveling and sketching; their bond deepens when they leave a first-class formal dinner of the wealthy for a much livelier gathering of dancing, music and beer in third-class. After revealing their love for each other and wish to leave together when the ship docks, they then witness the ship's fatal collision with an iceberg and now must escape together.So does Titanic live up to it's hype? I still say that this is a great movie to watch, I think that there were and still are quite a few haters that for some reason just want to trash the movie because it had won a ton of awards and Leo Mania was born at the time. Everyone is entitled to an opinion, but please don't let the haters bother you from watching this great movie. It has great acting, amazing effects, beautiful costumes, outstanding sets, a well-written story and still looks flawless. Love it or hate it, you have to admit this movie didn't get a lot of hype just because of Leo's baby face or Kate's amazing ability to cry on sight, this film is something special. Otherwise I don't think we'd still be talking about it so many years later. Kate and Leo had this amazing chemistry that in my opinion made it one of the greatest love stories of all time. Despite the story not being the most original with the rich girl loves poor boy plot, I think it worked extremely well because they fit so well together. James Cameron, the extreme perfectionist that he is, went over time and money budgets for Titanic, but this was his baby and it paid off very well. James had captured everything about Titanic and the sinking so well. He respectfully shows what terror the victims went through that night and made sure that this wasn't just a love story but to remember those who lost their lives on the tragic voyage. He had every right in my opinion to scream "I'm king of the world!" at the Oscars, because this movie blew everyone out of the water(no pun intended), you know what? I'm going to admit it, I love Titanic, even past my teen years I absolutely adore this movie, it will always hold a special place in my heart, it has too since I saw this film 8 times in the theater when it was released. Remember one thing, be true to yourself, don't follow the crowd, lovers or haters, if you go with the hype you're always going to go crazy over a film before viewing it, then if you thought the film was just alright for some reason it comes off as the worst movie ever. I do recommend Titanic, it's a great one and sure to go down in the classics one day.10/10
__label__10 Ah, yes, the film that propelled Leonardi DiCapro to super stardom, became the first film to gross $1 billion, and stayed on the top of the box office charts for 12 years (only to be kicked off the top by another James Cameron film, Avatar).It is said 'Titanic' is the film with the most continuity errors of all films. Despite this, though, the film was indeed a masterpiece. The sheer scale of the sets and entire production were simply mind blowing! The sinking of the Titanic was the greatest ship sinking scene EVER and was done with such meticulous detail that one would think they actually really sunk the ship. Off course, that was not the case, though, as it were all (very elaborate) sets, most of which were destroyed during the making of the film.Leonardo made for a very likable hero, quite frankly one a lot of guys can relate to. The young lovers were so different and yet so alike, and their love story was almost endearing. I must admit, the jumping backwards and forwards in time was a bit unnecessary and resulted in an overlong epic. They should only have told the 1912 story. Apart from that, the film was thrilling, exciting and fascinating in every sense of the word!
__label__10 Good Lord. This movie right here, it's a masterpiece. I am not exaggerating when I say this. Tonight was the first time I watched this. I watched some parts of it earlier, but I thought it would probably be boring, and that I had better things to do. Tonight I watched the whole thing with my grandmother. I was completely wrong on that. This was the best movie that I've ever seen, and probably ever will see in my entire life. Me and my grandmother were both in tears by the end of it. There were two scenes which made me cry: the part where the orchestra played "Nearer, My God, to Thee" and the end when all those perished on the Titanic applaud at the kiss of Rose and Jack. This movie was absolutely amazing and I would watch it over and over again.
__label__10 Titanic is one of my all time favourite films. I'm a 24 year old guy who has probably not cried in front of anyone since I was a kid, but this movie plays on my emotions more than almost any other. We all know the ship will sink (does that even qualify as a spoiler?) but the build-up to this event - the smugness and over- confidence, assurances of it being "unsinkable" - tease the audience, almost to the point where you're like 'is it really going to sink?'I thought the performances of everyone were magnificent: I cared about the characters and their lives on and beyond the ship. Taking the time to introduce everyone and weave their stories together was masterful, even beyond the main characters, like Fabrizio and Murdoch the First Officer and countless more. It was heartbreaking towards the end when you see the panic gradually set in, and it slowly descends into total chaos. You remember Jack telling Rose all the places he's going to take her to and you imagine their love- filled lives together. The Irish mother telling her children the fairytale, resigned to their fate. The violinists trying to maintain a spirit of composure amidst the carnage. And the music! Wow. I cried for all of this. And especially right at the end when you see the photos of Rose's life, knowing she's fulfilled her promise and survived, living a full life, probably never having met anyone she loved as much as Jack all those years ago.Visually pleasing in every way, dramatic, musically astounding, great acting and above all a fantastic story make this an undeniably iconic, enduring film. A romantic-drama unlike any other. It deserves higher than 7.7.
__label__10 To all the miserable people who have done everything from complain about the dialogue, the budget, the this and the that....who wants to hear it?  IF you missed the point of this beyond-beautiful movie, that's your loss.  The rest of us who deeply love this movie do not care what you think.  I am a thirthysomething guy who has seen thousands of movies in my life, and this one stands in its own entity, in my book.  It was not supposed to be a documentary, or a completely factual account of what happened that night. It is the most amazing love story ever attempted.  I know that it is the cynical 90's and the millennium has everyone in a tizzy, but come on. Someone on this comments board complained that it made too much money! How lame is that?  It made bundles of money in every civilized country on the planet, and is the top grossing film in the planet.  I will gladly side with the majority this time around. Okay, cynics, time to crawl back under your rock, I am done.
__label__10 I find it so amazing that even after all these years, we are STILL talking about this movie! Obviously this movie wasn't THAT bad or else people wouldn't even BOTHER to talk about it.  I personally enjoyed this film immensly, and still do!  I guess this film isn't for everyone, but it certainly did touch the hearts of many. As for those that think that this film is "overrated" or "over-hyped"...well, we only have the movie-going public to thank for that! lol*  You see, it's not CRITICS/article writers that make a film "HUGE" or a "HIT" with the general movie-going public.  PEOPLE make the film a huge success.  With Titanic, everyone was in awe.  Let's face it, a film like this had never been made before.  At least not with the type of special effects needed to really capture the essence of the ship actually sinking. This film is so accurate that even James Cameron timed the actual sinking of the ship in the film with the REAL sinking that fateful day in April 1912. Even the silverware for goodness sakes matched!  Give this movie a break you guys!  The critics thought this movie would sink BIG time!  When this movie actually came out and people started hearing by WORD OF MOUTH (which is the BEST form of advertisement mind you) that this was a good/decent/movie worth seeing, then everyone started flocking to the theaters in droves to see this movie...not once, not twice, but maybe 3 times and more!  So, I really wouldn't say that this movie was "overhyped"...at least not like the buildup for the MATRIX reloaded or the HULK is being "overhyped".  ha!  Critics didn't even think that Titanic would make enough money to cover Cameron's gigantic film budget that it took to make this mammoth of a film.  However, the films money took care of that 200 million budget and MUCH more!  Personally, I LOVE this film.  However, this film might not be for everyone. DOn't say that this film sucks just because of romance though!  THat is the most sexist thing I've ever heard! Disliking a movie just because it has romance in it!  The story was sweet.  The dialogue could have been better, but let's face it...the REAL star of the movie wasn't Leo or Kate...it was that GIGANTIC Ship!    I think all of the actors including DiCaprio and Winslet did a fine job.  It's not thier best work (I've seen much BETTER work from both of them) but it wasn't the WORST I've seen on screen before. Give them a break!
__label__10 This movie re-wrote film history in every way.  No one cares what anyone thinks about this movie, because it transcends criticism.  Every flaw in the movie is easily overcome by the many amazing things the movie has going for it.  It is an extremely beautiful movie, and I doubt many of us will see anything like it again. I've seen it more times than I care to count, and I still become transfixed every time, with a feeling which is hard to describe.  One for the ages.
__label__10 You can watch this movie in 1997, you can watch it again in 2004 or 2009 or you can watch it in 2015 or 2020, and this movie will get you EVERY TIME. Titanic has made itself FOREVER a timeless classic! I just saw it today (2015) and I was crying my eyeballs out JUST like the first time I saw it back in 1998. This is a movie that is SO touching, SO precise in the making of the boat, the acting and the storyline is BRILLIANT! And the preciseness of the ship makes it even more outstanding! Kate Winslet and Leonardo Dicaprio definitely created a timeless classic that can be watched time and time again and will never get old. This movie will always continue to be a beautiful, painful & tragic movie. 10/10 stars for this masterpiece!
__label__10 James Cameron's 'Titanic' is essentially a romantic adventure with visual grandeur and magnificence, a timeless tragic love story set against the background of this major historical event... It's an astonishing movie that exemplifies hope, love and humanity... Leonardo DiCaprio is terrific on screen with big charisma... Conveying passion, trust, insouciance and ingenuity, he's a free-spirited wanderer with artistic pretensions, and a zest for life... Kate Winslet is absolutely lovely as the confused upper-class teen engaged to a nasty rich guy who finds herself, one night, plunged to the depths of despair...Billy Zane is an arrogant racist, abusive and ultra rich who would lie, cheat, steal, bribe with money or even use an innocent young child to escape defeat... He keeps a 56 carat blue diamond worn by Louis XVI...Kathy Bates is the legendary unsinkable Molly Brown, the richest woman in Denver, who is a lot less uptight than the other rich folk on the ship...Frances Fisheris is the impecunious cold snobbish mother who, deathly afraid of losing her social stature, forces her daughter to become engaged to marry a rich, supercilious snob...Victor Garber is the master shipbuilder, the real-life character who attempts to fix time, to measure it, in a sense, to make it into history... Jonathan Hyde is the White Star Chairman who wants the Titanic to break the Trans-Atlantic speed record, in spite of warnings that icebergs may have floated into the hazardous northern crossing...Bill Paxton is the opportunistic undersea explorer in search for a very rare diamond called the "Heart of the Ocean." Gloria Stuart is the 101-year old woman who reveals a never-before told love story... The nightmare, the horror and the shock are imprinted upon her deeply lined face... 'Titanic' is loaded with luminous photography and sweeping visuals as the footage of the shipwrecked Ocean liner lying motionless on the ocean floor; the incredible transformation of the bow of the sunken 'Titanic' that takes the viewer back to 1912, revealing the meticulously re-created interiors; the first sight of the Titanic steamed steadily toward her date with destiny; the Titanic, leaving the Southampton dock, and some dolphins appear jumping, racing along in front of the luxurious ship; DeCaprio and Winslet flying at the ship's front rail in a gorgeous magic moment; the intertwining of past and present as Jack was drawing Rose on his paper, the camera zooms closely on young Rose's eye, only to transform its shape into Gloria Stuart's aged eye...Chilling scenes: Titanic's inevitable collision with destiny; James Cameronin one of the most terrifying sequences ever put on film takes us down with the Titanic, finally leaving us floundering in the icy water, screaming for help that never comes...Winner of 11 Academy Awards, including Best Picture, James Cameron's "Titanic" is a gigantic epic where you don't just watch the film, you experience it! The visual effects are amazing, like no other film's... The decor is overwhelming... James Horner's music intensifies the emotions... The whole movie is hunting and involving, filled with a wide range of deep feelings... It's truly a moving tribute to those who lost their lives on that unfortunate ship...
__label__10 Thirteen years after Titanic launched and all it takes is the first few bars of that haunting music to transport me back to my first time watching the movie in the theater. It was beyond comprehension - the entire spectacle and production. I bought the books, read the history books and found myself immersed in all things Titanic.I didn't hurt that my great, great aunt was on the ship and survived. It makes it a little personal for me. In fact, I happen to own one of the only objects in existence that came off of the ship into a lifeboat and did not go into the water.Love the movie - it still is #1 in my book.
__label__10 For me, the best film of all time, as a work of art, his memory is perpetual in my memory and his greatness to this day excites me.
__label__10 It's a crying freaking shame that this outstanding movie's rating has been dragged down by small people who hate it because it was successful. You should be ashamed of yourselves. When I first saw it I thought it was the perfect movie, and it's still one of my favorites 8 years later. It's got sexual tension, action, social commentary, and the acting doesn't suck. It's even got Bill Paxton, one of my top 10 criteria for a great movie. What's so horrible about it that it deserves an aggregate 6.9? The only reason I can think of is this perverse habit people have of hating anything that makes so much money or is otherwise successful that it makes them doubt their own worth. That's just sad, and you shouldn't take it out on an innocent blockbuster.
__label__10 I don't know how to explain my feelings, but this movie give tears for my eyes...
__label__10 Even though some of the actual events did not occur in reality as portrayed in the film, I feel as if the film portrayed the events to the best of their ability. I thought that the film did a good job of displaying the hardships and diversity between social classes. The character's interactions and emotions about the situations and conflicts they were faced with were also depicted well. Leonardo DiCaprio (one of my favorite actors) and Kate Winslet play amazing roles as Jack and Rose, and they do it justice! The connection and relationship between the two is a story in itself within the film as well as the ship's tragedy.As a young girl I watched this movie many many times with my grandmother. After watching it so much I became obsessed with learning about the Titanic. To this day I still enjoy doing research about the actual ship, the people aboard, the engineers who built the ship, the accident, the aftermath, and what is still being found in the bottom of the Atlantic. Eve since I was young I have loved The Titanic. I hope you do too!!
__label__10 It really physically hurts me when i don't see it in top 250 in IMDb's list.I am from India where the general perception of Hollywood movies are that they are more action oriented big budget entertaining films.We consider our films to be more emotional and poignant.However this movie is the most heart touching story i have ever seen on screen.I could see people's faces with tears rolling down after departing from the cinema hall.I could hear my father saying " Never knew that these people could make such heart warming movies".Maybe i am going a bit too far.But this is my way of paying tribute to the greatest movie ever made.
__label__10 Such a beautiful love story. one of the most legendary movies ever made, and i love it so much! acting is really amazing, leonardo dicaprio and kate winslet are both so talented and they nailed their parts! the plot is super good, and i don't think this classic contains any negative things, except jack's death and the fact that this movie is very sad.. but i'm still giving it a 10 because let's face it, it's a classic. duh
__label__10 When you have a film this big and successful, it just stands to reason that a number of people are going to try to bash it. Especially when it happens to be a romance. And sure enough, I am the only male I know who has anything positive at all to say about it. Is all of the criticism warranted? Let's see...Jim Cameron didn't need to create this huge-scale, heavily detailed historical drama to prove to me he was a great director. This film did pretty much convince the rest of the movie-going world, though. We all know the story of this great luxury liner sinking to the bottom of the Atlantic Ocean on that chilly April evening in 1912. The substantial loss of life still ranks among the great human tragedies of recent history (9/11, Pearl Harbor, etc). Cameron spared no cost of either time or money to make the ship and its furnishings look exactly as they would have on that maiden voyage. In terms of technical detail, this film is without peer.
The cast is generally appealing. Leo DiCaprio is far from a world-class actor, but his enthusiastic and earnest portrayal of Jack Dawson couldn't have been done better. Kate Winslet looks right in her element as a pampered young debutant trying to brake away from her boring life consisting of endless dinners and tea parties. Kathy Bates as "The Unsinkable Molly Brown" is always likeable and the rest of the cast (mostly Brits) does a good job of filling out their respective roles of cast and crew. Billy Zane gives the film's best performance as Winslet's greedy, snobbish fiancee. He is one of our most underrated actors. And you have to love David Warner as his bodyguard/enforcer.   As far as the special effects go, it's hard to imagine the sinking of the ship could have been filmed any better. Each time you view it, you seem to get a different perspective of just how lucky any of those passengers were to survive not only the actual sinking, but waiting around in life boats for help to arrive. As of this writing, only three known survivors are still alive. One can only imagine how many countless hours it took to conceive of, shoot, and edit the last hour of the film. The results are terrific.There are flaws in the overall mix, however. Some of the dialogue (Mostly Leo's) is down right corny. "When you've got nothing, you've got nothing to lose!" or "You seem like kind of an indoor girl" are two examples. Also, the notion that a guy from steerage class could go up and mingle with the first class passengers under any circumstances is not plausable. Keep in mind that a first class ticket on Titanic in today's economy would go for $80,000! These were some RICH people, and they wouldn't have let a guy like Dawson near them.Anyone who watches this film will have to endure numerous scenes of sappy romance. This film is a romance above all else. Just tough it out if it bothers you. It's not that bad.This film is tragic, exciting, sensual, pretentious, corny, extravagant, and even a little cheesy. And I love EVERY DAMN MINUTE OF IT!!!!!!!!5 of 5 stars.So sayeth the Hound.
__label__10 This is EXACTLY what I think: It annoys me when people say they don't like this movie. Yes, it might not be a masterpiece but this was a damn good cinematic achievement. Ben-Hur has a higher rating than this and it's about a man and his encounter with Jesus. If they have an epic with Jesus mentioned that is IN the IMDb top 250, then they should have this movie in the Top 250. This was a very realistic movie. Yes, James Cameron might have stretched some issues but they are very plausible.I always tear up when the music gets intense (anyone who has seen this, will know what I mean) or when I hear the Academy Award winning song that was in this movie (My Heart Will Go On) I tear up. This is the ONLY movie that has made me cry. I don't think I'll find another epic like this that'll make me cry.I've watched about 3/4 of all the movies in the Top 250 and at the very least HALF of them are unworthy of the place they are in. Hell, about a third of what I watched ought not to be on this list but maybe 150 places above the Bottom 100 and that's me being nice.People just have to watch this movie with ABSOLUTELY NO BIASED OPINION or preconceived notion that they heard it was bad. That's how I came to love it. It's now my favorite movie of all time.The effects are the best I've seen since the epics of the 50s. The acting was brilliant and Gloria Stuart should have won Best Supporting Actress for Old Rose. Hell, Kathy Bates should have grabbed a nomination at least. Not a win, but just a nomination. Maybe Victor Garber should have gotten a nomination for Best Supporting Actor. The same with Jonathan Hyde. That's how believable I think this was. The second movie to win 11 Oscars in cinematic history and THE highest grossing movie of all time. This ought to be right up there in the ratings with Ben-Hur.People have to think twice about the rating they gave it and give it a higher rating. That's my opinion. I don't care what anybody thinks about it, it is just out there. Like it or hate it, think twice on this movie before giving it a low rating.15/10! That's what I believe.
__label__10 I don't understand the hate for this movie it actually surprised me, I really enjoyed this film. Captain America: Civil War is a descent awesome MCU super action the third film of the Captain America trilogy. To me the second movie Captain America: The Winter Soldier is still the best one I just love that movie to death, but I like this one I love the first one but I just love all three of Captain America films. I thought the cast did a good job Chris Evens kicks ass once again he is Captain America and I look this movie from his point of view. He is really become my favorite hero of the Marvel Cinematic Universe and the Avengers films especially Age of Ultron, Captain America is still a guy who has a lot of screen time that it is the focus of a movie and he is still the guy I can take a side I agree with him, I can understand his choices.We have also almost everyone from Avengers films except Thor and Hulk actors Chris Hemsworth and Mark Ruffalo did not appear. Chris Hemsworth thought that MCU fired him because he was not cast as Thor but he was later explained that MCU wants his own movie and his own stand alone path which I can't wait for Thor: Ragnarok.The cast beside Chris Evens includes Robert Downey Jr., Scarlett Johansson, Sebastian Stan, Anthony Mackie, Don Cheadle, Jeremy Renner, Chadwick Boseman, Paul Bettany, Elizabeth Olsen, Paul Rudd, Emily VanCamp, Tom Holland, Frank Grillo, William Hurt, and Daniel Brühl.In Captain America: Civil War, disagreement over international oversight of the Avengers fractures them into opposing factions-one led by Steve Rogers and the other by Tony Stark. We have two opposite teams now fighting each other: Team Iron Man: War Machine, Black Widow, Black Panther, The Vision, Spider-Man.Team Captain America: Hawkeye, Sharon Carter, Falcon, Bucky Barnes, Ant-Man, Scarlet Witch.The battle between Captain America and Iron Man draws a political line in the sand. On one side, you have Tony Stark, a man looking to protect the world from super-powered individuals who've proved in the past to be more destructive than helpful. On the other, you have Steve Rogers championing civil liberties. It's the age old debate of safety coming at the cost of freedom, and we'll get to see it play out to a hopefully satisfying conclusion this year.The action scenes are fantastic, the fight scenes on the airport are incredible heart pulse breath taking awesome. The fight scenes were very well done and well choreographed. I liked this movie more the story drew me in, the villain wasn't that good.Robert Downey Jr. does a good job, Paul Rudd he is fun in the flick, he has a great moment as Ant-Man he has a few moments but one predictable. Scarlett Johansson did great! Black Widow kicked ass specially in the beginning of the flick. Anthony Mackie I really like him as Falcon he as a lot of good stuff in this. He was down played in Age of Ultron but has a lot screen time in here which was excellent and they made that for that in this one I am glad for it. Anthony Mackie has a lot of good screen time, specially in the action moments. Falcon has a remote control like a mini Flacon I thought that was really cool. Chris Evens is to root for this character, Black Panther interesting the actor playing black panther was really good I like him and I am really interested seeing his up coming movie. Bucky Barnes: Winter Soldier did fine.A lot of people are complain about how terrible this movie is I am sorry I don't see it that way, I don't see at all it is peace of sh**. I wish that Frank Grillo as Brock Rumlow / Crossbones wouldn't die and it was nice to see him in the beginning of the movie. I still wish he would work for the villain I still enjoy his screen time.I thought Chris Evens and Robert Downey Jr, did work great as a opposite team. I love the end of fighting between Cap, Iron Man and Bucky Barnes. I thought the last fight scene was well choreographed I honestly think Iron Man would have won and he would killed Bucky Barnes. If Cap wouldn't have hurt his heart. I know when Tony find out Bucky killed his parents and he killed his mom in 1991 he decide to kill him. I mourn with Tony and it was a great dialogue "That shield doesn't belong to you. You don't deserve it! My father made that shield!" Captain America: Civil War is a 2016 American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics character Captain America, produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures.I understand the hate, because Captain turn the law politics back to save his friend, but he actually try to safe an innocent man who was framed by Zemo. Captain America Civil War WAS BETTER THAN X-MEN APOCALYPSE, Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice, Man of Steel and Deadpool I don't like those movies they are peace of sh** and too way overrated. The rating I am giving is 10/10
__label__10 Hi,  I saw civil war and I come with good news; it's AWESOME!  Im not gonna spoil one single thing, since this movie should be seen by  only the two trailers you probably saw. Don't watch any tvspots after  the second trailer or whatever!  Im gonna touch a few aspects and rate them.  Acting: Of course it's amazing. The characters we were waiting for were  black panther and of course SPIDERMAN! Both were done amazing!  Spiderman has a bigger role than I personally expected and it's done  with grace. Love it. Black Panther was such a good character with great  motivation why he's doing what he's doing. The acting per usual from  the other characters were great! 10/10  Story: Now where another (let's leave it) unnamed superhero movie  failed this year, and no I'm not talking about dead-pool.., was the  story. Now this story is what I expected from the other unnamed  superhero movie. I didn't know what side I wanted to be on; cap's or  iron man's. I was so conflicted and even while they're fighting you  don't know who to root for. The villain in this movie felt a bit, not  really out of place, but unnecessary in my opinion. But Marvel always  struggles to find a good fleshed out villain except for Loki & kingpin  in the series. 8/10   Action/Cinematography: O boy..If you're an action freak you will love  this, if you're a comic book fan.. you're gonna LIVE these amazing  action set pieces. The much anticipated airport scene is AMAZING.  You've seen nothing, literally nothing of the amazing action that will  bestow upon you guys. The airport scene is in complete imax and has a  runtime of around 17 minutes. Just let that sink in! The Russo brothers  know how to create great action and film it great as well. I can go on  record and say this is by far the best superhero action scenes ever.  20/10.   Verdict: Was it a perfect movie? No. But for me as a fan it came darn  close. The only thing that bothered me were the villains, well actually  one of the few that are in there.   Was it better than... Batman v superman.. yes by far. I mean we're in a  comic book movie year, so we might as well compare it. Batman v  superman lacked in a lot of places and civil war just did it better.  Just the conflict in ideologies made it so much more believable why the  characters fought and because this whole story arc is happening now  after 2 cross over movies, 3 iron movies and 2 cap movies.. the stakes  are so incredibly high. I tried to compare dead-pool with it as well,  but it's a different movie in terms of it being a solo movie and  setting something up, instead of showing a conflict between good and  good instead of good and evil.   9 out of 10! Near Perfect movie for the fans(9.5) and a good solid  action film for the general movie go-ers(9)
__label__10 I loved every second of Captain America: Civil War. Everything was so well put and the story and plot worked very smoothly. This movie is everything Batman V. Superman should've been. Every character fit right and at no point did the movie feel crammed with superheroes. In my opinion, the two heroes that stole the show was Spider-Man and black panther. They got both of these characters right especially black panther. As much as I loved Batman V. Superman, I have to give this movie more credit. The Russo brothers did not disappoint and they delivered another marvel masterpiece just like the winter soldier. This movie was very good and I plan on seeing it again when it comes out to all theaters and maybe a couple more times! This movie made me very excited to see what comes next in the MCU.
__label__10 I lost count of the times I gasped or whispered 'wow' to myself.Story-driven and character-driven right to the bitter end, but it also has many amazing action sequences.Remarkably, all of the characters are well-served. Old favourites get moments to shine, and new kids on the block are put in the spotlight as well. One in particular basically steals the film.Weighty and serious, thought-provoking and intelligent, but also joyful and funny in almost every scene.Rapid-pace storytelling. Blink and you miss the next story development.Great, great performances from Robert Downey Jr., Sebastian Stan, Daniel Brühl and Chris Evans.10/10
__label__10 Russo Brothers did an amazing job with this film. I loved every scene in this film.The action is amazing,its good to see Chris Evans again as Capitan America,Robert , well he is tony stark and i actually loved him this film more than in his own movies. Black Panther, Antman y Spiderman, they are just amazing and interesting characters in the film. Visual effects are amazing and the battles are really good. I thought that marvel will never do a very good movie like it was winter soldier, but i was wrong, i was totally wrong I don't like to compare, but i enjoy this film more than batman v superman. It's obviously that it is not perfect, that's sure but for me this is the best marvel movie, and i cant wait for the infinity war, the MCU is in good hands with the Russo brothers
__label__10 I pretty much like or love all the Marvel Studios movies, starting with Iron Man through last year's Ant-Man. So there was virtually no chance I wouldn't enjoy Civil War. But this might be my favorite Marvel movie yet. So many characters are in it, yet I felt like every one of them got at least one memorable moment, even lame ol' Hawkeye! At the end of Act 2, there's a 20-minute battle scene that involves a dozen super-heroes, and it's amazing, probably the best of this genre. I went in rooting 100% for Cap, but by the end, I was feeling really badly for Iron Man and kinda wanted to see him kick Steve Rogers' butt. We get a couple of new heroes – Spider-Man and the Black Panther – and they are both just about perfect translations from comic book to film. This Brit they have playing Peter Parker is probably my favorite Spidey yet, even though he's only on screen for maybe 15 minutes. He's exactly as Spidey should be: a nervous kid who handles his anxiety by being a nonstop motormouth during his battles. And the Panther is just so cool. Ant-Man plays a big part in that huge battle I mentioned, getting some of the best moments during the fight. But really, this movie is Cap's, Bucky's, and Tony's story. What helps make it so great is how Marvel has built up their saga over multiple movies – we're already familiar with and invested in these characters. And the filmmakers use that to great advantage here. It's sad to see them pitted against each other, but completely understandable in the context of the film. Bottom line: if you've enjoyed some or all of the Marvel movies, you'll have a great time with Civil War. It's a blast! And it might even draw a tear or two
__label__10 Cynically speaking, the whole mold that the latest Marvel movie creates, is a colossal set up that engenders subsequent sequels and solo outings in the ever expanding Marvel Cinematic Universe. The third for titular Captain America, "Civil War" is essentially the third Avengers film, starting with events happening a year after "Age of Ultron". That is not to say the film is mistakenly titled, because it still is, in all important aspects, a Captain America movie. It's just that, he isn't alone. The sheer size of this potential billion-dollar movie calls for an equally mammoth effort from sibling directors, Anthony and Joe Russo, who also both helmed Cap's previous film, Winter Soldier. Their deft maneuver results in a beautifully crafted cinematic piece, whose towering bravura, bestows the entire proceedings with striking depth and sentimentality, which may not be the first for the genre, but enough to make it Marvel's best film, to date.In "Civil War", the brewing enmity between Steve Rogers/ Captain America (Chris Evans) and Tony Stark/Iron Man (Robert Downey Jr.) inevitably arises and turns bitter in the wake of their relentless campaigns to save humanity. The irony emerges amidst of their efforts, when greater authority finally asked who should be held accountable for the collateral damages brought both by their offensive and defensive operations. The motion begins to roll when a mission in Lagos resulted to unexpected amount of destruction and deaths.Differences in views divide the once solid group into two colliding factions. With Stark and his allies resigned to submit under the Sokovia Accords, Captain and the rest of his team, move away with staunch stand to operate freely under no greater force's jurisdiction. There is an intelligent attempt from both sides to meet halfway, but battle line is imminently drawn as a result of another attack which Cap's best buddy, Winter Soldier— now simply, Bucky Barnes— is believed to orchestrate. Doctrinal contrasts force heroes to pick sides, and the resulting chaos ensues a much bigger damage than what came in the missions they've previously pulled off together.While Joss Whedon's "Age of Ultron" is as massive as a superhero movie could be, Russo's Civil War is colossal in its own right, maintaining the former's size as it shifts to a more character- driven narrative, with its emotional weight heaviest on Steve Rogers' shoulders. There is a striking hint of effort to not overpopulate the proceedings with relentless chaos and destructions, but the ones inevitably allowed, are delivered in immaculate visual glory, each explosive action set- piece captured with breathtaking panoramic ingenuity. Even with all the intersecting plot lines laid out for every important character of this superhero extravaganza, they all eventually converge at one point, in which Captain Rogers and his connection with Stark, plays a key part. There is a visceral profoundness in how his character is written that finally places him at the center of his own film, and Evans has his commitment fully deployed for the role. And for a film whose own size seems to undermine its very own titular hero, the accomplished feat is truly massive for Captain, himself.A film of this size naturally gets devoured by its very own ambitions. Character-wise, Civil War is as big as the last two Avengers movies. And while Thor and Hulk are both missing in action here, newcomers are welcomed to fill in their shoes. The film facilitates the solid introduction of Chad Boswick's Black Panther, whose stand-alone film is due in 2018. But perhaps, as most people who've seen it, will say, the entry of the amazing web- slinger is the film's most anticipated highlight. Tom Holland's Spider- Man is a breath of fresh air, and it delivers some hope for the character's looming third big screen incarnation, next year. His comic timing may have been at par with that of Paul Rudd's Ant- Man, who shares one of the most genuine fanboy moments in the movie. This lightness comes amid the political tensions and philosophical differences between the opposing forces, one that is utterly missing in DC's Batman v Superman's messed-up attempt to pull off an essentially similar drama, last month.
__label__10 Captain America Civil War is the thirteenth film of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. It is directed by Anthony and Joe Russo, with a screenplay by Christopher Markus & Stephen McFeely. In Captain America: Civil War, disagreement over international oversight of the Avengers fractures them into opposing factions - one led by Steve Rogers and the other by Tony Stark. Civil War is definitely one of the best Marvel movies to date, and absolutely on par with The Winter Soldier which was also great. They are both on top in the Marvel Cinematic Movies ranking of mine so far. The conflict between these well beloved characters is done in a brilliant and fantastic way by the amazing Russo brothers who took the cheese out of the first Captain America movie , made one serious and great second movie, and build upon them both with the third outing. Everyone does a great job here, Chris Evans has made Captain America his own same as Robert Downey Jr for Iron Man. It features a very big ensemble cast and not one of them is anything less than great on the role. The fight scenes are also some of the best ever made in a comic book movie, even better than in The Winter Soldier. Especially the airport scene is just mesmerizing and totally stands out from everything else that's going on. Spider-Man is also unbelievably well done and Tom Holland is just fantastic. I am one of the few people who actually loved The Amazing Spider Man movies, and really got mad to hear that they are going to reboot the character again but I can see now that it was worth it. The visuals are great from beginning to end, the music is also good as usual. The villain is something that most people though it was the weakest point but I strongly disagree with that. He had reasoning as to why he is doing those things, and he pushes the other characters in new directions which is also necessary. I generally adored this movie, and even though I am a DC fan, there's just no denying that Marvel knows what they're doing and that is why they are much more successful right now.
__label__10 In reality a technologically advanced species would wipe us out within five minutes. Result? No movieTherefore, this movie depends upon a sequence of improbable happenstances to allow it to progressWe have a suitably driven central character and a capable side cast who take up the spirit of the piece, which is essentially heroism in the face of extreme oddsIf you cannot suspend your disbelief for the duration in order to feel the bravado humanity is genuinely capable of, you do not have the capacity in yourselfYour score for this movie directly correlates to how happy you are as a person
__label__10 I went into this movie thinking it was going to be cheesy and have some good action in it which is why I go to the movies. I don't go for drama and talking I want to see fighting and lots of craziness. I loved the movie, I love alien invasion movies and to see people on here complaining that the aliens didn't really have any special powers makes me laugh. I mean come on they come from a planet similar to ours so why would they have any special powers? They had a bit better technology then we did and what alien movie doesn't? Also think of all the alien movies we have had so far and what else can be done? You go to the movies to be entertained but I guess some people just can't let themselves go for 2 hours and enjoy whats on the screen because it wasn't written like they would of written it. I liked the aliens HALO type armor they wore and the wrecking ball/drilling metal munching destroying things were the sickness. That was one hell of a way to chew up a ship and spit it out, thought that was great. My kids loved it and my father got choked up over the veterans part. (His father is from that era and fought in Guam) I was just happy to get away from the busy/nasty daily grind we all sometimes endure and let myself go. I wouldn't see it again at the full price but will for sure go to the dollar movies and buy it when it comes out on DVD.
__label__10 OMG The movie was amazing. I do not like war movies or army movies at all... but this one was amazing. I loved the CG in the movie and i loved the theme. Aliens getting contacted by Earth that try to come and destroy us... The best part of the movie was at the end when the Museum steam ship had to be used. All the other ships were destroyed and Earths only defense was an old steam battleship that was used. THE BEST part is that it was a museum and the veterans from prior wars all in their 80's and 90's helped the few soldiers that were left from the abandoned ships. I found my self giddy that the veterans were helping and it was right at the climax that was needed especially with a serious movie. I loved it and like i said i normally do not get into these kind of movies.
__label__10 Battleship is easily the best stupid movie I've seen since Armageddon - it is infinitely better than every Transformers movie ever regurgitated onto the screen (apart from the Cartoon Transformers one from the 80's).Battleship it is the romantic story of how a 26 year old former high school jock John Carter, with no qualifications or experience, ends up in charge of a giant battleship because Eric from True Blood is his brother & he runs a battleship.High School Jock John Carter and has to destroy an alien invasion in order to impress Naval Commander Liam Neeson so he can marry his really hot daughter that wore that yellow bikini in Just Go With It - he does this by letting Japanese people do everything for him. They use a grid showing the surrounding floating Tsunami alert devices (because the aliens disabled the radar you see) to actually play the game 'battleships' and blow up the aliens using complete guess work & then they ask Old retired war veteran people to borrow their museum battleship & help them blow up Hawaii after they broke all their own battleships while playing battleships with the aliens earlier on - and then at the end he takes the credit for it all, gets a medal & goes for a Chicken Burrito with Liam Neeson. Despite the fact he knows nothing of the man, Liam Neeson agrees to let him marry his really hot daughter as thanks for letting the Japanese & the old people save the world while he stood around and watched.Rhianna is in it too - but don't let that stop you watching the movie as she is like a hot version of Vasquez from Aliens - and to the movies great credit, but also to my great disappointment, at no point does the movie allude to the fact that Rhianna has breasts. Amazing Wonderous Breasts. Also that freaky little guy from Ghostbusters II that plays the museum director Dr Janosz ("The joyfulness is over!") plays the President of the USA - what's not to like here?
__label__10 It's really not a 10 but I gave it that for all the 1s and 2s it was getting..Check your brain at the door and watch things blow up...I liked it enough to comment. I also liked how they used real military and vets for this film..they can't act very well but you'll find it in your heart to forgive that..too many "SH*T" bombs in the movie..I think if you make a movie about "SH*T" then you can say it...other wise leave out all the bad language, same goes for "F**K": they call that porn..ha.. Thanks for reading..enjoy the movie... If you don't like Sci-Fi, explosions, or the NAVY, do not watch this movie. Working on my 10th line and hope not to get an error..
__label__10 No clue what the last reviewer is talking about. There is tons of action in this film. Yes the first 15 minutes are a little slow (character development) but once the action starts it's non-stop and awesome. Loved this movie, loved seeing the ships in action. Great movie to watch memorial day weekend, makes you proud of the military! Will definitely buy when it's out on DVD, but was glad we saw in on the big screen first. Your kids will love it, mine did. My only knock is I wish Liam Neeson's role was larger. I really like him. But I enjoyed seeing the younger kids take on the aliens too. Very entertaining, action film. Don't over think it.
__label__10 I saw this movie in cinema. Later, I asked about the DVD in a rental store. The clerk said this was a Michael Bay movie. I did not make the connection, and even now I see Peter Berg is the director's name; but the clerk went on to say Michael Bay directed Transformers 1,2 and 3. High-tech aliens, lots of explosions, an underdog human race that the viewer will root for. Does Battleship fit that bill? Yes. It may be recent years have changed us in that we can see the special effects in this film are first-rate, and we no longer find a great light-show sufficient, but must subsist on the fetish requirement of that unidentified something we were looking for when choosing a movie. Let us seek that which this movie offers. Spoilers follow. Since Captain and Executive Officer are killed by the enemy,the rebel brother takes command and proves resourceful against a prominent foe by redirecting fire and repositioning ship for a strategic hard hit. When it is discovered the enemy has very effective stealth technology, an innovative method of learning their position is illustrated. A self-admitting coward, an amputee, and his therapist become instrumental in foiling enemy communication attempts. A perfect ending to illustrate our condition. Liam Neeson plays the father of the rebel's love interest. After saving the world he seeks permission from the girl's father to marry her, and he says no. "Saving the world is one thing; marrying my daughter is quite another." As with the Admiral whose criteria might be unreasonable, it appears that lately every movie is required to qualify before it can be called acceptable. Let the movie stand on its own, and you may be surprised; but it's not to impress me or because some reviewer thought one way about it. You make your own mind.
__label__10 This movie has some extreme digital modeling in it. All of the special effects (space ships, ships, explosion) are of the highest quality. Yes, for the most of the movie I was thinking realistically and have noticed a flaw (for example, if a ship has a bunch of rockets on it, why doesn't it shoot all of them instead of not shooting them and sinking because of the enemies attacks witch could have been prevented by destroying the attacker with rockets)here and there. When the movie ended, I realized one thing. This movie should not be watched with an expectation of a masterpiece "indepthening" story. This movie is made for fun, for epic fun. It was extremely entertaining for me to watch it, because there is always something happening, not much dialogue, you don't get to connect with the character, but the movie is just epic for it's pure fun(AND MUSIC!).P.S. Watch the credits till the end :)
__label__10 I would just like to say 'thank you' to all the haters. I had very low expectations because of all the negative reviews, but this movie was a non-stop action extravaganza. It has very little to do with the classic board game, but that doesn't take away from the fun. This is truly a summer blockbuster. Alex Hopper is the lazy slacker brother of Commander Stone Hopper. When Alex gets arrested, trying to impress the daughter of Admiral Shane, Stone makes him join the United States Navy. Seven years later, Alex is still a slacker but he must step up his game during the RIMPAC naval exercises. During the same time, five alien spaceships crash land in the sea. They begin to attacks the ships. Alex is forced to become the leader and fight back against the aliens. Like I said, this film is extremely action-packed and worthy of a viewing. I highly recommend BATTLESHIP!!!
__label__10 This film combines the stories taken from king Kong and The lost world,25 version.Bryce Dallas Howard Plays a Bitchy corporate executive ,who can't get with her nephews on Christmas holidays ,played by TY Simpkins and Nick Robinson, that her sister has sent them for visit,played by Judy Greer.Bryce works for a huge corporate amusement park that focuses on dinosaurs.Bryce can't make time for her nephews,so they wonder on their own.She a a troubled working and personal relationships with a dinosaur trainer and activist play by new movie star Chris Prat.Though owner and designer of the a park Irrfan Kahn ,who is more concerned about people having fun than how much profit has increased.Chris has a problem working relationship with Vincent.Vincent believes that the dinosaurs should focus on killing each other ,but, Chris believes they should be trained for peace.Well, there is one dinosaur that was create artificially ,for a new part of the park ,to be open soon.I call him T.Rex Kong. A problem arises he not following instructions and eats another dinosaur .All hell breaks loose when he jumps the wall and terrorizes the customers the customer of the park making a nice meal out of some of the worker and security guards .The dinosaurs were so realistic and were digitally created . Earlier Jurissic Park had used some puppets .The movie is made in style of an amusement park .It seems that the character development is shorter for the sake of the action.In some out takes that was shown ,flat, indicated that may be some of the shots should have been kept of the character development.It was not even.Did you see the little old fashion camera that the smaller nephew was carrying?could indicate Hollywood dislike towards home digital cameras?Chis originally did a you tube joke about him getting a job in Spielberg's next Jurassic movie .I think it was you tube.His dreams came true. Another problem was that the characters and the whole atmosphere of the movies and sets were cold and stoic.Even the kissing scene was cold and the family reunion scene,which Claire's sisters husband was played by Andy Buckley, was also not warm..E.T ,Poltergeists and Star Wars was far more Warmer.What's the problem?I am afraid it's a real world currently problems in general.Hollywood has always pretentiously serve the establishment ,for profit,then claims they serve the masses.This movie reflects our phony liberal side of big business and the wealthy running our government and exploiting the animal rights and environmentalist ,who are desperate for a quick answer to protect animals and the environment as well a s fanatics and those who have a contempt against the human race ,due to constant warmongering ,for profit and political power.This reflects pitting animals and the environment against humans ,very subtle, in this film,but,this is an outer problem.In spite of this it is an excellence film,Gorgeous sets and realistic dinosaurs ,Bryce in her 1970's hair do,which has become popular again and handsome leading man Chris Pratt.I was certainly satisfied with this movie.Both 3D and flat were good. The sound was arousing and excellent .No out of synchronizing problems here,since both images are in a folder stabled .Great for Dino fans and 3D fans. 10/21/15
__label__10 First of all I think people need to understand that film is a lot like music, you can't listen to a new Justin Bieber song and complain because it's not a Mozart masterpiece. And you definitely can't watch Jurassic World expecting a mind-boggling, emotional Inception type film. I would put Jurassic World in the same category as most Michael Bay films, the story line won't make you think, the characters won't go through any psychological changes but you will be thoroughly entertained by the special effects. I think it's fairly obvious throughout the original trilogy and this film that we are the visitors to the attractions, Steven Spielberg gave the parallel Earth a new unimaginable attraction, one which surprised the audience so much, it's rated as one of the best films ever. Period. Fast forward twenty two years past the films of Interstellar, Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter, we as a human race have seen a lot of original, unique things, a plain old dinosaur film will not bring us the same thrills as it did in 1993. Therefore we are once again, the visitors to the attraction. We will never feel the same buzz as first seeing that T-Rex crashing the gates over, or the same chill down the neck when first hearing that Raptor shriek. However, we can still be entertained. Which is what happens throughout the film. The characters are fairly bland, there are only a couple likable ones, but they all seem to grow on you near the end, the bloodbath that is left by the new Dino is quite emotional and gives you a side to pick fairly easily, the surprises throughout the film keep it exciting and the special effects, well we are in 2015 and they did have a lot of money to spend so lets just say they are incredible as expected. If you're looking to be on the edge of your seat for two hours and trust the film to not bore you, then you have nothing to worry about, the line graph representing excitement just climbs up and up, if you're expecting another Shawshank Redemption, well please don't slate the film when it doesn't satisfy your needs. I think that films should have two ratings, one for overall, and another for it's main sub-category, for example as an overall film I'd give it a 7.5-8, it's sub-category of excitement I'd give a solid 10, a comparison to the first Transformers which I'd give an 8 for excitement and a 5 overall. Therefore I really do recommend this film for anyone who like me, enjoys special effects, good excitement and two hours to just sit on the edge of my seat and thoroughly enjoy my time. I can only say I can't wait for the second one and I'm sure you will too after you watch it.
__label__10 Jurassic world is the #1 movie in America. This movie deserves the right to be called back especially with all the money it earned especially in the first week it was out. It's been 14 years since the last time I saw Jurassic Park. I never would have thought that they would be making a Fourth one and when I heard they were making a new one I was ecstatic. It brought back all the memories of the first 3 films. When the day came for Jurassic World to open it had to go see it on opening day and I did. The movie gave us the same feeling Jurassic Park 1 did "Welcome to Jurassic World". The new park looked amazing showing that John Hammond'so dream finally came true. The music was more amazing than ever, the original Jurassic Park theme was re-prised to show how much thing had changed in 14 years. The main attraction of this movie was the Indominus Rex and hybrid of T-Rex, Raptor, cuddle fish, and Tree frog and terrifying intelligence. At the end of the movie we get to see the original T-Rex from the first movie roar for the last time after the park was closed for good. This movie brought back so many memories for so many people. I can't wait for the next one.
__label__10 A really thrill of a ride. The Indominous Rex was a really cool idea and handed well. A lot of action and storyline. Most characters developed well and the last scene was a peach! However, there were some faults but they didn't destroy the film in any way, shape or form.The park was introduced in a very modern way and the teenager was like he would be, on his phone when there are dinosaurs!!! Staring at girls of course while queuing for the Gyrosphere was also very relatable.Glad the Trex animatronic came back...and didn't die because that would have disappointed me as it would have been a Jurassic Park 3 repeat. Though my jaw-dropped at the awesomeness that was when the Trex and Velociraptor fought together against the I-Rex. Seriously a really good film and (in my opinion) competes for the best of the four films.
__label__10 Successfully expands from park to world. Truly, it's a Jurassic world after all. Even though Steven Spielberg didn't direct it, he's still the executive producer. The visuals were thrilling and spectacular and so was the plot line. As the time passes on, the visuals get more artistic and realistic. This trilogy series never wears out it's welcome, I wonder what they will think of next Jurassic Space? I hope this film continues to receive critical acclaim as it's a dazzling popcorn thriller and it's emotionally and visually exciting.I think in the fifth film, there should be dinosaurs in space or the dinosaurs are attacking aliens. The CGI gets better as the years go on and it successfully replicates and in some ways improves the behaviours of the dinosaurs when they react with humans with the dinosaurs violent behaviours sure to thrill the entire audience!
__label__10 It's been awhile I think that I have labeled a film "a thrill ride" but seriously though this film was a real thrill ride. It takes place about twenty years after the events of the first film. There is now a functioning theme park on the original island. They get thousands of guest and they have tons of money making attractions. But then the people who run the park get a little greedy wanting to make more money and bring in more people so they create a new attraction, one that is more dangerous and scarier then the T-Rex. This film was fantastic. Chris Pratt and Bryce Dallas Howard lead this film very well almost as a good as Sam Neill and Laura Dern did in the first film. The kids as well Nick Robinson and Ty Simpkins did a good job. Colin Trevorrow also was a great choice to helm this film and he did a fantastic job directing. Now yes this film was a sequel and a great one at that. It's been a long time since I have felt that a sequel is just as good as its original. This film to me is really good and just as good as the first film. The special effects were great and one of the best parts was the music. I have been a Jurassic Park fan since I was a little kid and this is actually the first of franchise that I have seen in theaters as well. So this was definitely an amazing experience for me and hearing that original score in this film literally gave me goosebumps.
__label__10 The movie buffs always like to get their panties in a bunch when a new movie revisits one of their favorites from childhood, the same goes here.I know how the last Jurassic movie didn't work out and how the new terminator movie would presumably ruin our childhood as well. do not try to compare this with the Spielberg classic, it's its own movie with its own traits , and a very well done one in its own right. there are some cheesy moments, and story might feel unresolved in certain places with plot holes here and there, but overall, a brilliant movie to watch in 3D, would be money well spent and most importantly you will not be disappointed. period,it might not be a 10/10 movie , more like a 7.5/10 movie but the score is due to some unfair reviews and the circle-jerk it creates.
__label__10 17 June 2015 Film of Choice at The Plaza Dorchester Tonight - Jurassic World. Let's just say I'm a BIG fan of these movies, right from the minute we saw Sir Richard Attenborough clutching that cane with the amber head, I was hooked. I don't care that it's fiction and highly improbable, what matters is that these films take me to another land and in many ways another time.....65 million years ago to be precise. To be honest there wasn't anything terribly new in this film, two children, a rugged hero type, a woman running around in her high heels and a man with an alternative agenda. What we did get however, was dinosaurs on our side, and I love that. As portrayed in the film, the public want bigger, scarier attractions and a film going audience in a sense want that too. In this film however, we got more of the thinking man's dinosaur and a gaggle of well meaning people whose intentions were good but misplaced, a a couple of characters who really need to get eaten. I watched it in 3D, and I'm selective about the films I watch in 3D these days, but I have to say I was pretty darn good. Wouldn't mind watching it again......oh and Chris Prattt.....yum.
__label__10 The emergence of another 'Jurassic Park' sequel after the failure of 'Jurassic Park III' was bound to open the movie to criticism as exploring the world of dinosaurs seems to have been exhausted. However 'Jurassic World' doesn't try to be anything new, in fact it goes back to the original movie and adds on a few tasty elements. The film is set twenty two years after the original park was closed down after the disastrous events, and an Indian tycoon has now invested in a bigger and better park. However events take a disastrous turn once again due to genetically created experiments that are taking place behind the scenes. The story is good but not too inventive and the action sequences are breath-taking, whereas predictably some of the characters are abit two dimensional. The film is huge and highly enjoyable whether you are a fan of 'Jurassic Park' movies or not, this is old fashioned mayhem. In fact it is much better then the highly rated 'Godzilla' movie from 2014, which never got going. Jurassic World does what a great sequel should do, which is to take what the original had and change a few things while adding on a few sub-plots. Take the family and settle down to a a couple of hours of summer movie fun!
__label__10 Is a solid movie and it holds itself as a trilling experience for everyone. Yes, people from the original cast are not there, however there is actually not a logical reason in the time line to make them go back. Taking out this little detail, the acting is amazing and Chris Pratt holds amazingly as a main character again . Animations are better than ever and the story line even if a little prematurely developed is exciting and looks to reward the new audience as well as the hard on fans. Overall is a great movie which promise enjoyment. I loved it and I will recommend it for everyone that is a fan and for the ones that just want to see a movie that will print a smile at the end.
__label__10 'Could we discuss the next part of your performance over that drink?' asks the glittering Severine (Berenice Marlohe) from a suave tuxedoed James Bond (Daniel Craig). And indeed, this 23rd Bond outing, superbly directed by the usually reliable Sam Mendes, does just that, pausing appropriately to settle down leisurely over a drink, for some flirtation, some tense verbal confrontation, some self-reflection and brooding just before cutting away to some clean-cut, thrilling action. The result is the uniquely named 'Skyfall' a Bond film so full of the vintage charm and charisma yet fashioned in modern, urban and instantly accessible style that it ends up being one of the finest films of the franchise.Yes, Mendes' film is a solid revamp of the Bond franchise, bringing in welcome dollops of humor, luxury and sensuality that went missing from the franchise with the last outing. And impressively enough, there is enough emotion without slowing things down, enough tension and action without making it too frenetic and the pacing is so, so perfect that you seldom feel the film falling short or dragging too long.Pretty much everyone would agree that the 60s were the heyday of the Bond films. Those Sean Connery-starrers were primarily all about the leading man and his ladies but each was fashioned with such a slick ease, wise-ass humor and layer-cakes of moments that we embraced them all as subversive classics. 'Skyfall' fortunately, is a film that reaches up to that caliber.Clearly, the best thing about the film is the pacing. Mendes is in no hurry to let the film unravel. The story begins in Istanbul, with Bond and his side-kick Eve Moneypenny (a sharp-tongued Naomie Harris, smarter than ever), chasing down a man with a list. The action scenes come in neatly and the opening pursuit shifts from a hectic bike chase on the rooftops to the cliff-hanging fight on top of the train and it all looks truly spectacular.The plot is simple enough- MI6 is under attack from a former agent- a renegade named Silva (Javier Bardem) who has a knack for orchestrating terrorist attacks with a simple click of the mouse. But trust me, this has to be one of the smoothest Bond outings in recent years; Mendes smartly and adroitly navigates the action from Istanbul to alternately grey and sunny London and from the stunning Shanghai to the villain's lair- ideally an abandoned island and finally in Bond's ancestral home in rural Scotland's foggy moors, setting the stage for a truly dramatic experience.And, boy, it delivers. For all the charm that it delivers, this has to be one of the most intimately dramatic Bond outing since ages. The plot is about how the ubiquitous computer can be used as a weapon for security breach but more importantly, this is a film that pairs both Bond and his nemesis in the same light- both are tortured souls, both were MI6 heroes who had been left for the dead in the name of protocol and duty and M, played superbly by Judi Dench, looms like a domineering matriarch over both the men. Silva's angst is against M's cold-blooded dedication to her duty, and Bond feels some of it as well but the latter clings to his morals out of loyalty to his nation. The stakes are downright personal and high and clearly each scene of action or searing tension feels immediate, urgent and the film gels with us on a personal level.But none of it jars. Smartly enough, everything is on an even keel- the action feels perfectly urgent but it does not stretch, the drama is poignant and painful, the humor comes in like a fresh breath into the taut proceedings and it all works impeccably as smoothly as the click of a mouse itself.'Skyfall' also proves quite what everyone is saying since 2006's 'Casino Royale- that Daniel Craig is the best Bond we had since Connery. This is a film where he is never as before- instead of the hardened, brutal action hero we were handed last time, here is a more relaxed Bond, clearly at greater ease, flirting with women and sparring with M and Q (an impressive Ben Whishaw) with equal dry charm and sarcasm. He makes his one-liners blaze and his quieter moments are played out with a subtlety. He rules the film without trying too hard. It is a solid, compelling act.And he is matched by the villain as well. Super performer Javier Bardem shows up in an unforgettable role as the menacing Silva, a man whom you might cringe at yet a character who stays with us as long as he is there in the film. He flips between smooth talking to a nasty edge with superb ease and his confrontation with Bond is clearly the highlight of the film. This is also an action film where the cinematographer also stands out. The work of veteran lens-man Roger Deakins is clearly one of the best things in this film. Deakins bathes each frame, from the action and suspense to the more reflective and emotional sequences with a fantastic play of light, shadow, shade, texture and perspective. Everything looks stunning, perfectly placed and in balance yet urgent and explosive.'Skyfall' is clearly a Bond film for the ages. The layer-cakes of vintage moments are perfectly underlined with a modern style- the scene between Q and Bond is a moment of self-reflexive humor, clearly revealing the generation gap between the two and the one between the new and the old Bond. Clearly, this is a film that has something for both the fans of old and fans of new. And that is a grandstanding achievement itself.Thank you, Daniel Craig. Thank You, Javier Bardem and thank you, Sam Mendes, for making me believe in James Bond again.Now, give us some more. Ah! It was worth the wait.
__label__10 It has been a long ride for the Bond series, since the creation of the character there have been 15 novels by Ian Fleming, plenty of spin-off novels, comics, cartoons and video games and the film series is now 50 years old. There have been an extraordinary 23 official films, but few as extraordinary as Skyfall.After a mission goes wrong in Istanbul, MI6 loses a hard drive containing a list of all NATO agents within terrorist cells, and James Bond (Daniel Craig) is presumed Killed in Action. M's (Judi Dench) competence is questioned and the Chairman of the Intelligence and Security Committee, Gareth Mallory (Ralph Fiennes) plans to replace her. Making matters worse, a cyber-terrorist targets MI6 and M personally, getting a hold of the list and causing an explosion within MI6's headquarters. An older, more damaged Bond then returns to duty to serve Queen and Country, having to prove he is in shape before going on the search to find the terrorist.Skyfall is a long-awaited film thanks to MGM's financial woes, but it delivers. Skyfall takes a darker approach as we've seen with the past couple films and it's very character driven, yet Sam Mendes and the screenwriters still provide a massive injection of fun. Like most Bond films, Skyfall starts with an incredible chase sequence in Istanbul and continues strongly from then on, including a very stylish silhouette fight in Shanghai. The action scenes sequences were pristinely shot and practical effects were at the forefront.A challenge for the Bond series has always been real-world relevance. The series has faced down all challenges, from the end of the Cold War to the War on Terror. Skyfall tackles the changing nature of espionage. MI6 is no longer the shadowy organisation that the British government denied existed; it has to face the realities of the 24-hour media age we live in and the democratic accountability that incurs.The nature of the threats have changed, Bond faces a cyber-terrorist and along with the new Q, both could cause more damage than Bond can. In the real world, we have seen what Anonymous is capable of and seen how the Stuxnet worm affected the Iranian nuclear program. But there is always a need for people in the field to investigate. As M says, she is scared of this new world because many of the West's enemies are now faceless and nationless, and this element can work in the series' favour. Versatility has always been a Bond hallmark, which is why it is so enduring.Skyfall also goes full circle for Bond, as the filmmakers reintroduce popular characters, gadgets and humour. In Casino Royale, Bond is a young man who is bold, arrogant and reckless but can get the job done; in Skyfall, Craig is playing an older Bond who is both physically and emotionally vulnerable.The idea of an older Bond was briefly touched on in the unofficial film Never Say Never Again, but that was more to accommodate a 52-year-old Sean Connery being in the role. In Skyfall there is actual thematic reasons behind it. Craig gives another excellent performance, cementing his reputation as both a great actor and a great Bond, and the script treats him more as a character than an archetype. Along with M's character arch, the film tackles a theme of facing the past so it can be cleansed.The casting of Javier Bardem was a coup for the series and we as Bond fans are rewarded with a great villain. Bardem makes out Raoul Silva to be a man with seemingly camp mannerisms, but the master planner has a very sinister delivery. He has a complex, tragic background but he is not like other Bond villains looking for control, world domination, money or even self-preservation: he simply wants revenge.Skyfall is a great milestone to celebrate Bond's 50th birthday on film, and the Easter eggs for fans aren't overbearing, but rather nice touches. The last anniversary Bond film, Die Another Day, was a disaster and regarded as one of the worst Bond films. It felt like it had to keep referencing the previous films. Skyfall features a few major references to previous Bond films: Bond getting injured (The World is Not Enough), Bond faking his death (You Only Live Twice), the gun that can only work with Bond's palm print (Licence to Kill) and a similar villain to the one in Goldeneye. But these are references you would want to find, not being forced upon you.Skyfall felt very much like end of one chapter and the start of a new one. Mendes and the writers were able to reintroduce many tropes of the Bond series and still give them a modern and believable twist. For a film that has a 143-minute running time (the second longest Bond film), Skyfall never felt like it dragged and it was an exciting, entertaining film.Please visit www.entertainmentfuse.com
__label__10 Skyfall is a special James Bond Movie. Suddenly there was a 964 Astin Martin and Bond said "we're going back in time" to M, thats very neat. The story line has a car chase near the beginning, Bonds obituary shown in the trailer so no spoiler intended. There is Bonds road to recovery and testing. Bond thinks he passed by the skin of his teeth. The Villain brags that bond failed all of the tests, range, psychological, medical other. The bottom line is that the head of British Intelligence saw Bond as fit for the field. The screenplay is very good. One of my James Bond short stories was called Golden train with a fight on the top of a train tunnel and a sniper aiming at the train written in 2010. Commander James Bond celebrate 50 years of the Bond movie franchise with style the most successful movie franchise ever.
__label__10 "Skyfall" is loaded with jaw-dropping awesome stunts and special effects, one of the most beautiful and tragic Bond girls ever--the stunning Bérénice Marlohe, and a brilliant theme song from the fabulously talented Adele and producer Paul Epworth lushly orchestrated by J.A.C. Redford. There is sizzling homo erotic tension between Daniel Craig's perfect Bond and Javier Bardem's Silva, a villain the likes of which have never been seen in this franchise. Dame Judi Dench's marvelous "M" is set up for retirement from the onset of the film. Dench, who has portrayed M for seven Bond films--a record- -is given the screen time she deserves to honor her character. While Craig's "Casino Royale" remains my favorite with its bloody and raw portrayal of the spy business and most tender Bond romance since "On Her Magesty's Secret Service," "Skyfall" is full and satisfying and among the best films of its kind released this season.
__label__10 I went to the midnight show last night and was completely blown away !! I am 30 years old and had begun reading the Amazing Spider-Man back when I was 11 and leaving the theater last night, I felt like I was a kid again- I was amazed, I was in awe, I really felt... satisfied.Every scene crackled. There was an energy, there was an effort put into every moment of the movie. No scene went on too long, no plot holes fell through. It was the comic, come alive.Sam Raimi and Tobey Maguire did a great job of making Peter Parker sympathetic, you feel for him, you wince with him, he is the boy, becoming a man, and you watch it, and you keep watching it.Even as a long-time fan who knew where some of the story lines were going- with MJ, with Harry Osborne- to see HOW the movie chose to play out these stories, provided great surprises for me, I almost wished I didn't know... I can't wait to see the reactions of my friends who haven't followed the Spider-man comics, the twist of the story and the hints at what is to come...A great movie. Great fun. Great story. Great action. A blockbuster movie. You leave the theater, definitely feeling like you got your money's worth !
__label__10 7.3/10? Seriously? Most mediocre MCU films get a better rating than that. This movie is up there with The Dark Knight as one of the best superhero movies. This movie was loved when it came out, now it's cool to hate on the trilogy. Spider-Man 2 improved on all aspects of Spider-Man 1. Peter is struggling to be Spider-Man, and the movie illustrates that very well. The action is better than lots of movies today, most notably the train fight scene. Danny Elfman provides an unforgettable soundtrack. This movie and the trilogy shouldn't be overlooked as some cheesy 2000s movies, because they paved the way for the MCU as we know it today.
__label__10 This by far one of Sony's best work om the character of Spider-Man alongside Spider-Verse. A great interpretation of Spider-Man. It is a film that focuses on what matters. The character. Sam Raimi took everything that worked about the first Spider-Man movie and made it so much better. We see a Peter Parker with relatable problems. We see a man that never loses his will and never gives up ACTUALLY give up. He literally can't catch a break. And when he does catch a break and has his confidence boosted it feels so satisfying. This Peter Parker is probably one of the best if not the best character in the whole CB Genre. Doctor Octavius is man which Peter idolizes not only on his work in making the world a better place but also in his love life. Think about it Otto and his wife are a shadow reflection of what Peter wants. When Otto's wife dies and Otto goes insane all he wants is to rebuild the machine that made him proud, that made his wife proud. Harry's development in this movie is completely amazing he goes from being a best friend to absolutely hating Peter and being completely broken from the loss of his father who he so much wanted to impress. Bravo Sony. Bravo Sam. Thank you for giving us this masterpiece. Thank you for giving your soul into making this movie amazing. Thank you for making our childhood and adulthood amazing with this classic.
__label__10 This is what a good summer movie should be.Spider-Man 2 transcends the boundaries of being just another comic book movie to being a richly character driven movie with a very conflicted hero. Here, for the first time, we see the actual emotion behind the facade of the hero behind the mask. Gone is the richly colorful look of the first part, here in Spider-Man 2, we are plunged into a world of shadows and off colors.Picking up two years after the first Spider-Man left off, Peter Parker (Tobey Maguire) has his hands full with three full-time jobs. He is going to school full time, he is working full time to pay off his rent, and he is a hero always on call whenever he hears a siren. Not to mention, we see the emotional toll that has been taken on him, his only surviving family member, his Aunt May (Rosemary Harris), has become consumed with grief and loss over the death of her husband (incidentally, creating Spider-Man in the first part), Peter's friend Norman Osborne (James Franco) is now at odds with him since he has become consumed with revenge over Spider-Man killing his father (the Green Goblin), and his love affair with Mary Jane-Watson (Kirsten Dunst) is slowly being extinguished because he is never there for her to return the feelings she has for him. And this is all in the first fifteen minutes of the film.As Spider-Man, Parker is even in danger of losing his powers as his exhaustion slowly begins to take over. Is it medical or is it because he has stretched himself too thin? Eventually, Peter decides to give up being Spider-Man to finally bring peace into his life. There is a brilliant sequence in this film when we see Parker returning to his alter-ego from the first part before the mutated spider bite as he puts on his glasses again, clouding his vision to the world around him. When he sees someone being beaten up in an alley, he turns around to walk away. When the familiar sirens fly past him again, he just eats a hot dog. In short, Parker has finally succumbed to being a New Yorker.In the midst of all of this, we see the creation of a new villain, this time in the form of a deranged scientist named Doctor Otto Octavius (Alfred Molina), who has four frighteningly powerful arms welded to his spine after a disaster with his life's work. This disaster not only turns the Doctor into Dr. Octopus (Doc Ock as the papers call him), but the artificially intelligent arms seemed fuse to his id, placating his desires to not want his life's work to be a failure. Doc Ock will try again at the expense of anyone around him.The standout here is Tobey Maguire, who can convey the film's entire heart with a look or a gesture, but is most heart-wrenchingly done in his hesitations. For a man so used to having quick reflexes, when he has to slow down and realize what is going on around him, we are instantly in his head. Maguire also has to command the screen as Spider-Man and convince the audience that he can stand up to someone like Octavius and not seem fantastic.Sam Raimi also does a knock-out job as well, knowing when to hold on a character's face long enough or swinging the camera along with Spider-Man to give the audience the exhilaration of flight. Raimi is more than competent enough to give this movie the look and feel of a moving comic book and by utilizing his most signature camera shot (zooming into and out of the character's eyes), the audience is invited to live for a moment in the tights of a superhero.Spider-Man 2 has so many great messages to be heard in this film, the best of which seems to draw both Peter and Octavius together in the end: In order for the right thing to be done, does it mean that we have to put away what we want the most? In both cases, there are some strong arguments and that is what makes this movie such a surprise is the depth that it possesses. Seemingly, we have entered the bizarro world of sequels, where they seem to surpass the original (Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King, Toy Story 2, etc) and Spider-Man 2 definitely joins these ranks. Perhaps in allowing a series to expand rather than compliment the original, we can expect more depth out of movies, which has been as equally absent in this day and age as heroes as Spider-Man 2 also suggests.
__label__10 Spider-Man 2 picks up where the original film left off, this time showing the more difficult hardships of being a superhero. Standing in the way is Dr. Otto Octavius(Doc Ock) a brilliant scientist whose fusion experiment goes awry at a demonstration Peter attends.The story, and characters are fleshed out more this time out, as well as the effects. Kirsten Dunst is more convincing as MJ, she seemed a little flat in the role last time. Here she, like the rest of the cast, do a convincing job. The top performance has to go to Alfred Molina. In the short screen time Otto has before he becomes a diabolical powerhouse supervillain, he is an endearing, likable person. Spider-Man 2 also offers more confidence in it's story telling. The "raindrops" sequence is an evident example. Not afraid to go full nine, this movie is the definitive comic book movie, possessing action, drama, comedy, and message(without being too preachy). Director Sam Raimi and crew really nailed it this time around. Be sure to check out comic artist Alex Ross' paintings spliced in the opening credits, entailing the events of the first film. A great opening to a great film.
__label__10 The first and third 'Spider-Man' movies were simply fantastic.But it gets even better with 'Spider-Man 2'. It's full of action, has plenty of adventure, and is full of award winning special effects.Like any other super hero sequel, there's always a new villain.The villains name in 'Spider-Man 2' is Dr. Octopus.AKA Doc Ock.He has 4 mechanical tentacles that can flip cars and throw people at great distances.Does he remind you of anything? Of course he does.What does he remind you of? An Octopus... Duh.It may sound kind of stupid, but Doc Ock's character actually helps the movie become a 2 hour roller-coaster ride of a movie.Just remember that Spider-Man can do whatever a spider can.
__label__10 This movie is by far one of the best movies of all time! The movie had pretty much everything you need for a prefect film: Script: 10/10! OUTSTANDING! Director Sam Raimi did an excellent job giving full attention to the Dilemma of Peter Parker. He balances all the action, comedy, and drama perfectly.Acting: 10/10. Tobey Maguire was very good being a character that doubts himself and has to choose between wanting a normal life and wanting to live as a superhero. Kirsten Dunst is very good in her roll as Mary Jane Watson. James Franco is amazing as the bitter Harry Osborn who is seeking revenge on Spider-Man. And Alfred Molina as Doc Ock is fantastic. He was an excellent choice as one of my favorite characters from the comic.Action Sequences: 10/10. This movie has some amazing action scenes with Doc Ock on the building. But the best effect in the film is the fight between Spidey and Doc Ock on the side of the train.Comedy: 8/10. J.K. Simmons is amazing as J. Jonah Jameson and adds a lot to the film. Ted Raimi is also very funny. The Raindrops sequence in the movie had a lot of laughs when you see Peter Parker as the nerdiest kid in the world.This movie has everything you could ever want out of a summer blockbuster. And as far as staying faithful to the comic book 10/10.PERFECT!!! 10/10
__label__10 After being very impressed with the first one after some skepticism, Spider-man 2 is tackling a sequel with great anticipation and even greater expectations. The way Sam Raimi was able to produce the story of Spider-man with such style, realism and above all, faithfulness to the Marvel original comic is tremendous to say the least. The reason why it took this long to make a live action movie for Spider-man is due to the difficulties in making the action sequences look real and being able to connect all the side stories and characters in a single effort. Although it doesn't look flawless, it is still able to fool the eyes. The characters are also faithfully represented.Spider-man 2 is a great sequel for many reasons. First it ties right into the original without skipping a beat. Set a few years after the original with all the same actors and characters. Though it differentiates itself enough from the original so you're not watching a clone of the first. It dives deeper into the psyche and the experiences of its main character in order for you to gain a greater understanding of his situation. At the same time it still provide great visuals, pulse pounding action sequences, humorous side sequences and breath taking special effects and camera work. This movies stands head and shoulders above all super hero comic movies. It delivers what a movie goer seeks and leaves them gasping for more. Immediately after viewing, I was pondering what they will do with the next installment and i am sure that the majority of the viewers were thinking the same thing. The movie is strung together in a great sequence that never ever bores the viewer. The new villain gets a good intro which explains his situation in a neat and tidy manor. Doctor Otto Octavius is a perfect villain which is played and visually represented to perfection. The movements of Doc Ock are fantastic. It's just as i would have pictured it in my mind, if i could... while watching the cartoons or reading the comics. Only Raimi presents it in a way that connects the loose visuals in our minds with the visual reality (of course with the aid of computers). Some may complain about there being too much story, too much Peter Parker and not enough action. One must realize that if it were the other way around, that you'd be complaining that there wasn't enough storyline. People are so hard to please. Even with this seemingly flawless movie people still find something to complain about. The only thing i didn't understand was the presence of Ursala, the daughter of Peter's landlord. What was her role in all of this? Anyways, i just bought the DVD for this and realized that i should voice my opinion especially seeing how low of a score this movie got in contrast with what i would score it.Action:10 Directing:10 Acting:10 Re-watchability(if thats even a word):10Overall rating: 10 out of 10... bravo!Bring on part 3 whoever the villain might be. Venom, Lizard, Gobblin, Scorpion, whatever. Heck bring on the sinister 6!
__label__10 My presumptions of a sequel to a successful original are that they are worn out and are a desperate attempt to cash in on it's predecessor. Look no further for conclusive evidence with the terrible Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen to know what I'm talking about.But every now and again a sequel comes along that just simply changes your perceptions and gives you faith in a continuing franchise where the sequel is just as or in the case of Spiderman 2 better than it's predecessor.Toby Maquire, Kirsten Dunst and James Franco return with director Sam Raimi who has done a terrific job in making this for me one of the best sequels of all time.One of the successes Spiderman 2 has is the depth of the characters and stories as there is more than one strand. Toby Maquire has the same natural ability which he possessed in the first film to accurately convey the character of Peter Parker who struggles with his feelings for Mary Jane who becomes frustrated that he can't return her feelings for him, to his fractured friendship with Harry Osborne who harbours a deep grudge against Spiderman to trying to balance his life as superhero, student and employee and struggling with his Aunt May over Uncle Ben's death to finally battling the new villain Oto Octavious played memorably by Alfred Molina and all these story strands thread there way through two hours of pure entertainment.With the main story and these sub-stories the film could have become confusing and meaningless but thanks to the sublime artistry from Sam Raimi, it flows beautifully and never loses sight of itself.Which goes to say the acting is as brilliant from the main cast which helps the film has more exploration and depth and the special effects this time round are flawless and much improved on the first.This has everything for the comic fans and those who just want to be entertained of action (which there is plenty of particularly towards the end) drama, romance and humour mostly from JK Simmons who when he was on screen I was laughing out loud.Credit goes to all involved and I very much look forward to Spiderman 3.
__label__10 Wow. That's all I can manage to say after watching this film, wow. This movie really blew me away in all its aspects. The performances were top rate, especially Alfred Molina's portrayal of Dr. Otto Octavius. He really knows how to play that comic book villain with a sense of understanding so to speak. Tobey Maguire and Kirsten Dunst romance is a truly interesting and different outlook on being a super hero. We often dream of being super heroes, and yet here we see just the opposite. The audience feels Peter's conflict between protecting the innocent and letting his own life suffer or letting it go and living the life he's always wanted. To get everything he ever desired, he must give up his double-life. Despite whether he gives up being Spider-man or not, he will still forever have to deal with the complication of his dying friendship with Harry Osborn( James Franco). Franco is my favorite actor in this film, a young millionaire dealing with the death of his father, his friend being the only one who can help him bring the murder to justice. And yet, unbeknownst to him, his friend is actually the wall crawler himself. A extremely well done screenplay. Sam Raimi adds touches of humor to the story and it blends in quite well.The characters are just so well done and intertwined with one another. Sam Raimi makes more than just a comic blockbuster but a well-defined drama of sorts. Even the villain has his moments.The action is unbelievable and truly out does the first. Future superhero films will have to work hard to surpass what is seen here. The train chase is by far my favorite scene in the film, truly adrenaline pumping!! Audiences do have to wait a bit, but once a fight starts prepare to be simply amazed. Not only this, but the score is magnificent!! I love Danny Elfman!! It captures each moment exactly the way audiences envision it. Another sequel is surely on the way. This is definitely one of my favorite films of 2004, putting other comic book films of the same year to shame, such as "Blade: Trinity".
__label__10 I'm not a spider man fan, but I started to become one after the first movie appear. The second has some things that were missing in the first, like the appreciation for spider man's work. If I was a super hero I would like to have some consideration for putting wrong things right, so I think the worst spider man enemy is the press. This is just a movie, but in real life the press has also the power to turn a good man in "the bad guy". The other thing that I loved in the movie was the combination of the psychological with the physical aspects, where the first ones overcome the second, like regular people. The mind will always defeat the body and super heroes are no exception. The end couldn't be better, super hero or not, he has also his needs that can't be ignored. People say that behind a good man there's always a great woman, spider man has Kirsten Dunst, sorry, Mary Jane. That's all folks.
__label__10 Tobey Maguire,(Spider-Man/Peter Parker), gave an outstanding performance as a very weak and helpless type of guy who tried to fly like a bird and fell on his face all the time, so to speak. As the picture progresses you wonder just how Spider Man will eventually put an end to his octopus friend and his evil deeds. There are many exciting scenes and especially when Spider Man is trying to save a run-away elevated train from going off its track and winding up in a river. Kirsten Dunst, (Mary Jane Watson) is about to get married to someone other than Peter Parker and something takes hold of her and sends her in another direction. This was a great entertaining film and very well viewing over and over again.
__label__10 Review of SPIDER-MAN 2by STEVEN BAILEYThere are some "popcorn movies" that transcend their origins andjust become great movies--"North by Northwest," "Raiders of theLost Ark."Add "Spider-Man 2" to the list.There's no good reason that a film about a guy with the dubioustalent for traveling by web should be one of the most touchingmovies around. But darned if I wasn't near tears by movie's end.For that, kudos to director Sam Raimi, who found the same"realistic" tone in the first "Spider-Man" and extends it here. Thecharacters seem like clichés--the clumsy kid turned super-hero,the erstwhile girlfriend, the doting aunt. But thanks to heartfeltencore performances from Tobey Maguire, Kirsten Dunst, andRosemary Harris, they're more believable than those in more"earthbound" movies I've seen this year.Of course, some viewers don't go to "Spider-Man" movies forcharacter depth, and action fans won't be disappointed here either.Alfred Molina, whom I've always found hammy, here has perfectpitch as Dr. Octavius--at first friendly and caring to Peter Parker(Spidey's daily alter-ego), then downright operatic in his revengewhen his planned scientific breakthrough goes wrong and turnshim into a kind of octopus-robot. But the movie spends an unusual amount of time letting us get toknow its characters, so that viewers truly have a stake in thehigh-powered action scenes. (Warning: Those scenes might bevery tough sledding for younger viewers. But if you've seen"Spider-Man 1," you know what you're in for anyway.)Out of a flawless cast, I end by singling out thoroughly winningKirsten Dunst as M.J., Peter/Spidey's love interest. Her dreamy,sunny face grounds the story in happy normalcy. And her finalscene tops even "S1's" much-ballyhooed kiss.This movie has it all. Go.
__label__10 Spider-Man was an okay film, but it is not as good as Spider-Man 2. This film is obviously the best of the franchise, and gives us a lot of the high-quality action we have wanted from the very gecko. There are lots of fight scenes, lots of great acting, and great character development that drives the story further.In this film, Spider-Man is facing off the evil Doctor Octopus, and trying to balance out his time, so he can do things like his job at the Bugle and tend to Mary Jane. it's not easy, but it is funny and entertaining to watch. This film is awesome because it gives us a lot of the things that we have been asking for, such as great action scenes, great story, and in the end, this is a great comic book film, and is my favorite comic book of all time.
__label__10 This is probably the best "Spider-Man" movie I've ever seen! Sam Raimi, once again, does a great job with this one. Alfred Molina was great as the sinister Doc Ock. I especially like the dramatic side of the film, such as Aunt May being in debt, Peter Parker thinking about giving up the life of a super-hero, and his friendship with Mary Jane (despite the fact that he really loves her) beginning to degenerate. I also like how Harry is beginning to become more arrogant and more bent on killing Spider-Man for "killing" his father. I didn't quite know what to expect of this one when I first saw it in theaters (and I had just started recovering from a mild case of the chicken pox when I did), but I was completely taken-aback from this. What a great sequel!
__label__10 I have never been much of a Spiderman fan, as a matter of fact I am not really a comic book fan overall. However I enjoyed Raimi's first Spiderman film very much and was more than happy to check out the second instalment when it was first released in cinema.My hopes before entering the cinema were not too high to be honest, I expected it to be one of those sequels which were simply out just to make money. However by the time I was leaving the cinema my thoughts were completely different to my expectations.Everything about this film in my personal opinion is an improvement from the first. The acting is a lot better and you can tell that the actors really do understand and care for the characters that they are playing. Tobey Maguire and Kirsten Dunst have some outstanding chemistry in this film and of course not to forget the fantastic performance from Alfred Morlina who plays the menacing Dr Otto Octavius.Also the action in this film is a large improvement along with the special effects, each action sequence is directed well and is executed in a fast and exciting pace, making the film a real roller-coaster ride.Finally one thing that made this film so memorable for me is how much deeper and personal it is compared to the first film. As the original shows Peter Parker becoming Spiderman, this instalment shows the problems that Peter faces actually being Spiderman and what he must sacrifice.I do not usually like to compare sequels to original films as in my opinion every film whether it is sequel or remake should be given a chance on its own. However Spiderman 2 is one of those sequels which shines well above the first instalment and in my opinion has so far been the best in the series.8 out of 10
__label__10 Saw IRON MAN 3 last night and it was superb. It was the sequel IRON MAN 2 should have been but wasn't and the perfect extrapolation of life after AVENGERS ASSEMBLE. The set pieces are suitably awesome and the acting performances are uniformly excellent from the leads right down to the tiniest bit part (there's a jewel of a cameo from a guard that upstages even Downey's comic timing). The script gets the balance between the epic and the personal just right and Sir Ben delivers two performance for the price of one and both are genius (can't say more - spoilers!). Mr Downey Jr also manages to show even more of the complexity of Tony Stark. Just when you think there's no more to be fracked out of that particular mine, he goes deeper. The writer set out to deliver a fun story and that's exactly what it is. It draws you in from the first moments and doesn't let go. What more could you possibly want?
__label__10 After watching this movie I don't want to live in this world anymore. I love Tim Burton's movies and this one wasn't disappointment. The cast was great. Everyone played, they weren't just grimacing. Helena Bonham Carter was great as always. Mad hatter was something, his lines were witty and his dance was the funniest thing ever. Every character is special. I liked this Alice, she's strong, smart and modern. And every time I saw the cat I wanted to be there to hug it. I was worried that Disney would spoil this movie, but I was wrong this is absolutely Burton's movie. The landscapes will make you forget about everything you saw before. Atwood's costumes are beautiful, they fit the characters same is the make-up. If you like fairy tales don't miss Alice In Wonderland.
__label__10 I loved this movie, it had good plot and very nice dialogue. Every one seemed more powerful like Storm, because she didn't really show her strength in the first two X-movies, she seemed more motherly and consoling instead,not like in the comics but in this movie, she finally showed her strength. I also loved Wolverine her, as always, he showed himself more powerful and he was given more action scenes. Although my most favorite part was the final battle, there was so much action and I was pretty surprised that Magneto didn't die after Beast gave him something. The last scene of Wolverine and Jean was sad too. But out of all, very good movie, highly recommend watching it if you haven't seen it yet, you will not regret it. But you really have to pay attention to the movie to understand it.10/10!
__label__10 I LOVED the movie... I'm from Scotland and it was released here 25th may 2006. I just couldn't BELIEVE the effects that happened, but to be honest the story could have been much better. I don't like how the phoenix story is explained as it is clearly made that jean becomes the phoenix at the end of xmen 1... (for you ppl that don't know, it's supposed to be when magneto's statue of liberty/mutant creator/thing is supposed to turn everyone into mutants that the phoenix force is to come into contact with jean, therefor, that is how we see her gasping/shocked after it is destroyed), not that it has simply been a part of her for the whole time since Xavier and magneto met her as is explained in xmen 3! The story line in the movie jumps from character to character without much inter loop. It can jump from one scene to the other but you can still figure out where the story is going. One thing that really got me was the fact that in one scene, kitty pryde is an innocent student taking part in a classroom discussion with Xavier, and the next after his parting, she is suddenly a main character in a room with iceman, storm, wolverine and beast. Where is the gradual trust/bond that is made up through the previous 2 movies that makes the characters an 'x-man'? It's obviously missed with this movie and throws kitty straight into the limelight which was slightly disturbing (just like the fact that she takes it upon herself to save the mutant at the source of the 'cure').I would love to go into detail about the movie as so many things remain unanswered but I can't spoil it for the other fans who are yet to see it. All I have to say is be prepared to laugh, cry and deal with the demise/rise of certain characters in this movie. They certainly came as a shock to me, even after reading rumours circling the web about their story in the movie, I certainly wasn't prepared for the demise of a few characters and the hurt that was shown by the others. All in all, a FANTASTIC movie that has to be seen by not only x-men fans, but by all to complete this 'supposed trilogy'.The ending of the film (the effects and the powerful end to one of the characters knocked me for six completely!), and by all means, the clip that was shown to me after the end credits also took me by surprise. Like I said 'supposed trilogy' could make it into a 4-some. I've heard certain rumours about different end credits shown to different ppl and the one I was shown featured Moria McTaggart and her patient.... If it's true, I would like to see the 'jean grey/phoenix' ending to the movie, just so it can relate to the comics and build up a story for the 4th xmen movie... but then again.. I think the probability of that is slim to none.From seeing the 'Moria McTaggart' ending and hearing about the 'Jean Grey ending', I would have LOVED if both were shown and they were intersected to create the 4th x-men movie, but that all depends on how well this movie does at the box office and how well the fans receive it.I hope and dream for someone to announce X-Men 4 so the story can continue, but with certain characters gone, it may not be entirely possible. It's up to us, the fan's, to make X-Men 3 a success and for others to make X-Men 4 a possibility..... Here's hoping we can continue the story and resurrect/reclaim the characters' demise in X-Men 3 to be a powerful resurrection to success for a hopeful X-Men 4.
__label__10 With Animation industries overproducing computer-animated films for either sequels or prequels, expectations from critiques and longtime cartoon lovers who grew up with classic Disney movies are pretty high. For this reason, It has been a while since I get to be surrounded by parents who like to bring their kids to let them enjoy bright and comical scenes. After coming to the theater with low excitement, not only does this movie exceed my expectation but it also proves that Pixar is not a sort of company that tries to take audience's wherewithal by making a mediocre prequel based on the reputation of an original one. As usual, Pixar consistently unleashes intriguing, unique, and appealing characters with flexible movements and simplified traits that attract a wide range of audiences. Especially when it comes to presenting different breeds of monsters with extraordinary looks and abilities, followed by an absolute storytelling skill that moves everyone's emotion. As the setting takes place in the old days before Mike and Sullivan get to work together in Monsters, inc., you get to find out how they meet and grow their friendship. The story consists of both internal and external conflicts that college students can unanimously relate to. Pixar does an amazing job on capitalizing as much college-related elements as possible to emphasize the importance of corroborations, personal identity, and working hard to achieve your goal. There are also tons of humors that make you laugh periodically. In a nutshell, this is a sincere and endeavored film that sends us various messages to help us progress in many different ways. I strongly recommend this to all the students out there who are struggling with their school life. It is such an inspirational movie and Pixar still rocks!
__label__10 Monsters University is the best Pixar film since Toy Story 3 in 2010, and as good as Monsters Inc.After Toy Story 3, Pixar Animation has been doing films that got short for the standards make by them. Cars 2 in 2011 didn't make it to the final round on the Academy Awards and Brave in 2012 won that year just because it was Pixar and they didn't receive the Oscar the year before, but the movie didn't have anything special. So, after the good streak of Wall-E, Up and Toy Story 3, Pixar fell way too low, buy this summer they have raise up and brought the perfect family movie of 2013 (by far). Even thou we are seeing some of the old characters like (obviously), Mike, Sully, Randall and even George Sanderson (the monsters that is shaved for the 3312 alert), this movie feels different from its predecessor/sequel. What Monsters Inc. gain in sweetness with the Boo's character, this one compensates it with laughs. Since Finding Nemo in 2003, Pixar films has lost a little laughs, and introduced sweetness, but in University the smiles are back. But it's not only about the laughs. The whole philosophy of the world is different. Inc. was about questioning the world they live in and everything they know about human kids. In University, scaring a kid is a good thing and is what give value a monster. If a monster is not scary then, what kind of monster is it? So, those two simple things gave the movie a whole new and different vibe. The story is pretty much what we have seen in the trailers, but funnier. However, there are some unexpected twists that make it a even more solid film. So, we are safe to say that you haven't seen it all, even if you have seen every single trailer and clip in the internet. The ending is great, odd coming from Pixar, it works perfectly to the story when you think about it and don't make room for any sequel to the prequel, because it closes every gap. It would be a cliché to say that the animation is amazing. This is Pixar that we're talking about. All the details on hair, scales, skin and even feathers are stunning. Even better than that is the animation on the characters expression. It is unbelievable. They don't have to say a word to send a message because with their faces they say it all. Sully could be an Academy Award winner, but what Mike does with one eye and a round body doesn't have a word to be described. Some people will say that in Monsters Inc. Mike says to Sully, "You have been jealous of my looks since fourth grade". However, the characters first meet in college. Well, director Dan Scalon said that they actually thought about that and get to the conclusion that Mike said that as a common expression referring to a long time period and not literally that they have meet since 4th grade. The only problem is that to sustain that excuse they should have use it at least one time in this film. However, we never hear such a phrase to be told by Mike or any other character in the film. That will make those people think that Scalon only said that excuse to safe the story. If you are human enough to ignore that stupid and insignificant expression, then you will enjoy Monsters University. You will laugh, the kids will love it and everyone will remember why they fell in love with Pixar and this particularly characters 12 years ago.
__label__10 Despite all the critical dribbles, I enjoyed this film. I remember two years ago, critics were very harsh on the first Transformers film. They said it was all about special effects with no heart and no story. As a fan of the Beast Wars cartoon, I was interested but had low expectations. I went in with nothing to expect, but, boy was I blown away, the first film had great action, terrific characters, and it was a fun popcorn movie that made over $700 million worldwide and got three Academy award nominations in the process.Two years later the critics are at it again, calling this an empty vessel, I say they couldn't be more wrong, the audience I saw this film with was cheering at the action sequences, laughing at the jokes, and they seemed to have a really good time, in fact, I heard a tremendous amount of cheers and loud clapping when it was over. It seems audiences, who actually pay to see these types of popcorn films, like it far more than the critics who always dislike Michael Bay's movies.This is the type of movie, similar to 1996's Independence Day, which was also trashed by many critics. It's a fun, loud, and cool popcorn movie that will have you on the edge of your seat. Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen is easily my favorite film of 2009 so far. IGNORE THE CRITICS, THIS MOVIE WAS TERRIFIC!
__label__10 This contains lots of spoiler, so beware if you hate being spoiled about a movie you haven't watched yet. To be completely honest, I enjoyed every single bit of the movie and it's on my top favourite list of this year after the movie Dawn of the Planet of the Apes. Perhaps, it is because I am a fan of transformers movies since part one. And definitely, it's because people's opinions and points view do differ after all. So, it's absolutely something normal to see bad reviews and good ones. But for this movie's situation, I neither can understand nor fully digest at how most of the reviewers are going mad about it. Firstly, there's absolutely a plot going on in this movie. And this is Michale Bay's style in his creation of Transformers. So I don't get how most of people would say something like (there wasn't even a story to being with..). Well, I believe that the reason could possibly occur due to the fact that most people are raging about it since the original story itself had a different plot. (The original story indicating the cartoon one) But, so what? Bay had a different idea in his mind, and to be honest, it was not uninteresting and bad at all. If you're very disappointed about this fact, then why bother watch the movie from the start if you'll just keep judging it with the cartoon one?Secondly, the action is amazing. Beautifully made. The robots look very flawless. Optimus Prime looks stunning. And Bumblebee is definitely adorable. And especially the new army that helped them at the end of the battle, this idea took my breath away and I clapped at that part. The robotic dragoon was a classic in my opinion. The drama and harmony that goes in circle between the robot family is just heart warming. And now Let's face it, Transformer is definitely a Sci/Fi and Action sort of genre, isn't it? So, OF COURSE there will be lots of it. I mean, even the cartoon one had the same genre.. So, what's the difference here? Why'd they fuss about it? And why most of reviewers are making fun of it and saying something like (all that ever happened was action.) Hm, okay? To be honest, if someone said to me now: (yeah since too much action made me blind from seeing the drama.) I might even accept it since I'll understand from that point of view that this person wasn't even interested, and was already disappointed before even buying the ticket. Thirdly, the soundtracks were epic. Amazing choice of songs from good bands that are well known from today. What I like about Transformer is that they like to differ in their bands, they don't always stick to one band or the same bands for their music. They like to explore since they have an idea of the tendency of differences in many others that might suit the movie's behalf. They do stick to some bands that they like, but still, don't you realise they always have new bands and singers going along their OST? That's something I literally appreciate, and I believe it's one part of making a movie epic.Lastly, the new actors and actresses that were chosen were actually pretty good in their roles. Especially Cade. I loved his role the most, and I love the fact that he found Optimus Prime, and had created a warm bond with him. Their acting was satisfactory to me, and okay, I somehow agree with the humorous part in some scenes. But it wasn't that bad at all. In fact, I thought that some of them were really funny and enjoyable. Some people have humor like this, you don't always have to expect excellence in humorousness because other people have lame jokes too, and some others would laugh about it and appreciate it. Unfortunately, not most of us see that, right? And would just therefore judge.Anyway, in the end, I appreciated this movie not because I am a big fan of it, but because I totally think it was beautifully made. Thus, explains the 10 I've given. I strongly believe that Bay's effort was heartily given, and he made me respect his cleverness in his thing for explosions and actions once more. Therefore, it made me utterly sad to see people have hated it JUST because of such trifle matters. Again, I'm not saying this because I am a big fan of it. E.G. I used to be a big fan of The Vampire Diaries series. But not anymore, because it literally started to get boring and complicated. But the latest Transformers, wasn't complicated at ALL, and it still had the same storyline. So what is there to be complicate about. It's obvious if you TRULY observe and not go along with people who judge just in order to either "fit in" or go with the norm. And again, people's opinions do differ after all. So, who am I to also keep pointing out. Though I just wanted to explain all of this because I believe it's like an advice as well.So, my advice to you is, if you still haven't seen the movie, and you're having doubts about it since most reviews are bad, or YOU already have BAD thought about it since some others have persuaded you; still, give give it a try. Why not, right? What's to lose anyway? If YOU are confident that you can afford the ticket, and wouldn't mind, and wouldn't hate or rage about the money if you didn't like it, then go for it and see for yourself. And once you're in the cinema and ready to watch, blackout all the thoughts and opinions that have craved in your head by others, and let out YOUR thought and attentiveness to judge the movie from your own point of view. Enjoy it!
__label__10 I am not really a huge fan of transformers. I mean i did like the other movies but i wasn't really expecting that much from this one. When i saw this in the cinema i wasn't expecting a lot. i expected the odd laugh, tiny amount of actual transforming and a dull storyline. When watching it i was actually pretty surprised at the fact there wasn't a lack of transforming. Literally they started transforming within the first 10 or 20 minutes. The storyline was quite funny too! the whole stroppy teenager with overprotective dad thing was really funny. the acting was very good and when it gets like half way the action and storyline intenses and gets pretty amazing. The bit near the ending is just spectacular! the amount of action at the end really made it get a 10/10. Even with the action there was still a storyline and humour. It was a really really really good film and i can't wait to get it on DVD when it comes out so i can experience it again :D It is definitely worth the money to see it at the cinema and it is the best transformers film yet... but i can't help but feel like they are going to make another film as the ending is just a cliff hanger in my opinion but still a really good film and i highly recommend to everyone! Well worth the 10/10 :)
__label__10 When I saw the trailers , I thought its going overboard now. We don't need fourth installment. The trailers were not so clear and I kind of lost of interest. But after the movie I must admit, Michael Bay is a real genius. He can make you excited with new style of directing. I love his direction so much that I dream about his scenes. The scene where Optimus gets new life back was so awesome tha its still giving me goosebumps. The movie is really awesome and it made billion dollar proves the point. Don't go by critics, I don't know whats their problem. The action scenes are just awesome. You can watch it over and over again. Thank you Michael Bay and Transformers team for giving such a wonderful movie to enjoy.
__label__10 I saw "Oz the Great and Powerful" in theaters on it's opening weekend and I loved it. This movie had heart, a good storyline, a well-written script, emotion and some intense moments. It's not as much a prequel to the 1939 classic "The Wizard of Oz" as much as it is a reboot of the "Oz" franchise that acts as a prequel to the novel "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz" by L. Frank Baum (not that I've read the novel). As a reboot, I think it did the source material justice. As a prequel, it actually answered some of my questions. I think the reason some people were disappointed by "Oz the Great and Powerful" is because they had high expectations for it. I actually had very low expectations going into it and I was surprised by it. I thought it was going to be "Alice in Wonderland" but set in Oz and without the only reason to watch it (Johnny Depp). From the trailers and TV spots, it looked like it was made to cash-in with "Alice in Wonderland". It was so poorly marketed. But I thought the movie was one thousand times better than "Alice". I've seen "Oz the Great and Powerful" three times now and I don't see why some people may hate it. Sure it's almost all CG (but then so were "300" and "Avatar" and no one gave a crap) and the cast consists almost entirely of celebrities (but then again, Judy Garland was a celebrity) so I can sort of understand why it may feel like a turn-off. However, I can't name a bad thing about the movie and most of my friends who have seen it really enjoyed it like I did. While James Franco wasn't the best choice for the Oz character, I think he pulled it off very well. I think it's a much better prequel movie than "Star Wars: The Phantom Menace" was. And I like "Star Wars" better than "Wizard of Oz" so I think that's saying something. "Oz the Great and Powerful" may not be a masterpiece or better than the classic but It's a "great and powerful" movie and if you haven't seen it, I highly recommend it. Don't listen to the haters. You're opinion is all that matters. I give this movie 10 stars out of 10.
__label__10 I don't normally write reviews, however I feel compelled to write something about this movie. I have seen some negative publicity about this movie and noticed that there was some low scores in the voting. I have to say respectfully to these people, you're being stupid. The movie was almost perfect for what it was intended to be, a family movie about a magical place. There were in fairness some mistakes made in the plot concerning the relationships between the main characters, but they were more creative differences I would have and not full blown errors. Beyond that the movie was brilliant and was in a most pleasant and surprising way funny and I mean funny. The movie was a credit to the legend of L Frank Baum and the legend of The Wizard of Oz. I don't think this movie has any hope of the kind of success The Wizard of Oz had, but It was far above and beyond the typical garbage being manufactured in Hollywood these days. I say get the girlfriend, boyfriend, kids, mom, dad, or whoever and go see it, you will have fun and have some laughs as well. Thank You for reading my review and God Bless.
__label__10 I know there have been so many bad reviews of this movie, but I found it to be a wonderful movie. The thing I love the most about this Spider-Man series is that it isn't afraid to deal with the emotional aspects of the Spider-Man series. Anyway, I will rate each aspect of the movie below.1) Andrew Garfield: I find Mr. Garfield to be a wonderful Spider-Man. He grasps the cockiness and nerdiness that matches the comics well. He was great in this movie, carrying the emotional and action scenes like a pro. 2) Peter Parker and Gwen Stacy: I absolutely love Andrew Garfield and Emma Stone as Peter Parker and Gwen Stacey. Their chemistry is so real (love that they're together in real life), and the scenes between the two of them are my favorite. They are what make this Spider-Man series so special. 3) Villains: I did feel that although the villains in this movie were played well, that there were too many. Jamie Foxx played a good Electro, and Dane DeHann was a creepy Green Goblin. But, I found some of the fights scenes long. Overall, villains were played well. 4) Soundtrack: The soundtrack was OK. I was disappointed that James Horner didn't return to score this one, but Mr. Zimmer did an OK job. Some of it sounded too dub-steppy and I just found it a little too loud. 5) *major spoiler* Gwen's Death: I knew it was coming, but I still cried my eyes out. I cried for a solid 15 minutes. From how aggravatingly close Peter was to saving her, to his hauntingly realistic reaction to her death, it was heartbreaking. I am still in mourning. 6) Other things I loved about this movie: the costumes, some of the sarcastic Peter Parker humor, the adorable Peter-Gwen pictures hanging in Peter's room, and finally getting an explanation as to why Peter's parents died. I was sad that it didn't get better reviews, because I loved it. Spider-Man is my favorite superhero, and even though I thought the ending was heartbreaking, I will definitely come see the next Amazing Spider-Man.
__label__10 The movie was one of the best Spider-man movies that I have every seen. The special/visual effects were amazing. The chemistry between the main cast was very good. Particularly the relationship with Gwen and Peter. The movie sometimes would have moments in which you knew Sony executives put there noses into like the plane scene. Also there was a lot of set up for the Sinister Six movie. Andrew Garfield is the best as Peter Parker. Sony should not change him. Mark Webb should have added more first person scenes as seen in the The Amazing Spider-man Trailer and movie. Anybody who is a Spider-Man fan or loves to watch action, adventure or comedy films should check this out. 5/5
__label__10 And it was worth it.I was 9 years old when I saw TRON in a dingy cinema in Fareham, I was hooked then, and I always dreamed they would make a sequel.I was seriously worried though, I mean, Escape from New York was another of my favourite movies and I got all excited about the sequel to that... and left the cinema mortified...Not this time.This was like an old friend coming home.There are a lot of comments about this movie having a poor story, personally, I disagree. It was a father and son story, any more on top of the other sub plots going on would have been too much.It's a hell of an experience for the sences... when those Recognizers flew overhead the cinema shook... immersive, entertaining... everything a good movie should be.Roll on Number 3.
__label__10 Yes. I had watched this movie back in 2010 when I was in school. Didn't understand much, but I was blown away by the visuals.. But now watching in 2019, it all makes sense and the visuals are yet world class. This movie was ahead of its time.Worth watching!
__label__10 There's a fairly coherent storyline here that would appeal across the spectrum, striking a fair balance between drama and action, although action junkies would have preferred for set action sequences given the investment in souping up and introducing a number of vehicles other than the light cycle.Certain scenes stood out either as homage or influenced pieces, and perhaps you may disagree with me, but the nightclub scene with Gem the Siren (Beau Garrett) bringing our new protagonist Sam Flynn (Garrett Hedlund), the son of Kevin Flynn (Jeff Bridges returns to once again play two roles, that of Kevin Flynn the founder of Encom and his digital creation / avatar Clu) to meet Castor (played by Michael Sheen with flamboyant spunk) an information broker in the undergrounds of the digital Grid world, seems to have contained a whiff out of The Matrix Revolutions, with Persephone and Merovingian. But of course the Wachowskis didn't have Daft Punk to turn the tables, and parallels between the Matrix and the Grid cannot be more prominent given entities within are programs, with the ones gone rogue instilled with a desire to cross over to the real world.Then there's something unmistakably Star Wars about it too, with the designs of attack space crafts zipping through the night sky, and clearly one of the many gorgeous costumes here can't seem to hold a candle to what looked like an awesome robe, simple as it is, but striking nonetheless. Or how about something which reminds one of Gotham City's caped crusader, with the Tumbler inspired getaway vehicle with large inflatable tyres played out in a scene right out of Tim Burton's first Batman movie with the long road back to the secret hideout within which to seek out answers to questions left silent en route.So I may be stretching it, but there will be certain degrees of familiarity you'll find in some moments of the story, but I assure you the crux of it is a film that has deeper pathos, dealing with man's relentless pursuit for perfection and utopia, and the desire to play god if given a chance. Creations made in the image of is quite pronounced in a scene that stood out almost like Michelangelo's Creation of Adam, although here it's interpreted in the digital realm. Humans aren't perfect, so our creations in all likelihood will inherit some of our flaws, no matter if they happen to be digital and following certain fixed patterns and constructs. It's what being human is all about with our imperfection. The dramatic elements here between Father and Son is the film's strength to provide that emotional anchor and attachment making this a digital affair with plenty of soul, and the chemistry shared between Jeff Bridges and Garrett Hedlund make them quite the father and son pair up, with shades of how revered the former is within his own created realm, and the tremendous power that he still holds even if in exile.Olivia Wilde provides for the token fashionista who is ever ready to flex her battle prowess with skills in various weapons - a lethal combination of The Matrix's Trinity equipped with Star Wars blades - and vehicles, whose background is given a superficial twist which seeks to expand the TRON universe a little bit more with miracle phenomenon being a natural occurrence once a perfect equilibrium is achieved. Fans will get to learn and understand this expanded universe a lot more as explanations get dished out in due course, even one that deals with the time in between the first and second films, of Kevin Flynn's obsession with his latest playground that his creation ultimately took over, turning it into an arena with its own brand of gladiatorial fights for entertainment. But there's enough material introduced without being overwhelming for the new Grid entrant, and opens up a lot more avenues for future storytellers.Even for those days, I wasn't one of those who got instantly impressed by the effects of the time, but then again that's what made TRON stand out based on its uniqueness in look. It was way ahead with combining live action with computer generated graphics, and in the same fashion, the filmmakers here had done an admirable job prepping this film up for 3D. 3D may be the latest Hollywood fad that got people jumping onto its bandwagon, but just as how computer graphics has to be inherent in the first TRON movie, the updates of the franchise has to keep up with the times, and in true reel mimicking real life, The Grid pops up in more than 2 dimensions, starting with the light cycle wars that include an additional dimension to consider, which makes for some thrilling action, both on or under the ground and in the air, rather than just becoming a mere special effect.But I had to admit my personal hook line and sinker to watch this film, is the soundtrack by Daft Punk. It stands out most definitely throughout the film, and provided additional lift. It's a character in itself without which the film wouldn't be half as exciting or watchable, with rousing themes to stoke your expectations with its pomp. Their musical contribution and its importance cannot be more than overstated, and is a critical ingredient to why I had enjoyed this film so much to put it as a late consideration into one of the best this year has to offer.
__label__10 I must begin with the explanation of why i'm giving the full note to the movie-i wasn't the biggest fan of the original Tron (1982) when i saw it, and even though i didn't expect much from the sequel, i was eager to see it, because i am a fan, a huge admirer of Olivia Wilde's and because the timeframe reminded me of another movie, i wasn't so keen to see, last year.A movie, which then turned out to be one of the fullest movies of the year-full of both heart and soul.I even saw it the same day-on the 19-th last year.And i said to myself, there were too many things alike, such as the fact i saw Legacy's trailer at the teather, just before the beginning of Avatar-too many things to throw away such an opportunity.So today i went, and i was totally blown away by, by almost everything.I guess that's what happens when you see a movie you didn't expect to be something special, but that wasn't the case.The experience itself was special-and not in terms in time and date and likeness but in terms of quality.The costumes, the effects, the music, the tone of the movie were special.The actors were the thing i actually wanted to be a little better.I always felt strange, seeing a Jeff Bridges movie-he clearly can act and is a great actor, but i don't like his style very much.I quite expected he would be the show-stealing actor, but i was wrong.It was the beautiful and stunning Olivia Wilde.I am a fan of hers and i always knew she is a great actress with huge potential, but was sad, so to say, by the fact she was great in TV-shows mostly-in House or the O.C. she's great, and now she put that passion in a big project so her talent can be visible for audiences around the world.She has great looks and is a skillfull actress.Only by the look of her eyes i felt what she feels, and that's very important.The bond, the connection with the people, ordinary people in the audience like me was so real and was what left us wanting for more even from other movies.She did that, a thing only a handful of people can do.That's what makes her such important for the movie.I know it sounds cliché but she is really the only woman for this role.No one else could've done it better.Garrett Hedlund, or Sam, was also interesting to see-a fact, i didn't see from the trailers-he has potential and he showed that in the movie.And i forgot to check who played Zuse, but i'm sure it was Michael Sheen, because only he is so crazy and unique in his style.He brought brilliancy and sheer entertainment in his role, it was something great to see.When we talk about the people behind the movie, we must pay a huge credit of the rookie director Joseph Kosinski.Disney made another brilliant gambling move, that's paying off.The man knows what he's doing and the studio was aware of that fact.I'm paying a huge debt to him for the effects as well, because he works with computer generated imagery, also a specialty of his.It will be an interesting thing, to follow his upcoming career moves and projects-he'll become a big face, i'm sure of that.All in all production and effects were great, some fresh faces were introduced and some-rediscovered in this one-hell-of-a-ride sequel, which will stand in mind for a long time to come.Avatar and Tron formed a Christmas movie-going tradition, that one only could hope continues the next year and the one afterwards(a little bit like Saw & PA's Halloween traditions).We, moviegoers, can only hope for things to continue in this direction, because you've brought warmth to this moviegoer's heart during winter-time.I hope people like Joseph Kosinski and Garrett Hedlund continue develop, Jeff Bridges to keep making strange, but otherwise captivating roles, and last but not least, Olivia Wilde to progress, because, she's not just another beautiful face, but a mesmerizing actress as well, who can heaten up a fan's heart and a woman with such skills, suitable for both the big screen and TV-such diversity is rare to see these days.She's something special.I know i'm not objective, but this must and is visible for many people i know and is now visible for everyone.So, all the best for her, and all the cast and crew behind the movie.Because you made one hell of a movie.The new Christmas movie-going tradition is here.And cheers for it.Cheers for "Tron : Legacy"My grade:A deserved 10/10
__label__10 Well, many people describes Cars 2 as "disappointment". I don't think so. As a Pixar movie, it might not be as good as others, but still it's a great film. Perhaps we expect Pixar too much. After the year of 2008, we had wanted to see next Pixar film even better than Wall-E(I think it's the best of all). But can it be easy? Recently I've seen a lot of Hollywood cartoon movies. Among them were some wonderful films, also boring ones. Cars(1%2) is special, which makes me feel totally differently from any other one. The character McQueen impresses me deeply and the relationship between he and Mater is as fantastic as well. I had expected Cars 2 could get a rate of 7.5, at least 7. But it only gets 6.4! Even lower than Turbo(6.5, DreamWorks Cartoon). Strange!
__label__10 I take a completely opposite view than many of Cars 2: it's a good movie! So many complain of lack of plot development, dry characters, no scope, blah, blah, blah.They're missing the whole point. Like many sequels, this story homes in from a large group of characters to a smaller group, in this case on two specific characters: McQueen and Mater, with the later being the central focus. Why? Because this movie shows that people who are seemingly stupid to everyone else, ridiculed and counted out as failures, are not so stupid after all.Now, Mater is not sophisticated, not quick on the uptake, and certainly not eloquent in his address to others. But what he lacks there, he makes up for in loyalty and honesty in friendship. Clumsy in social graces, he nonetheless seeks for other's good above his own. Perhaps a flaw in his character would be his willingness to take others face value; in a word he's too trusting of others. This gets him into many awkward situations, and ironically, out of many dangerous situations.The plot was ingenious, weaving the racing dare between McQueen and Francesco with an international get-rich plot of "lemon" cars. There are so many references to past makes and models of cars that are practically nowhere to be found today! The spy plot was icing on the cake, thanks to veteran actors Michael Caine and Emily Mortimer. They really added a lot of class to the movie. It was fun watching Mater get caught up in the whole thing, and watch McQueen and the townspeople of Radiator Springs drop their jaws at what he does! It boils down to two friends: McQueen and Mater. They both realize they've made mistakes and try to make them right. Mater is able to go one step further and proves he's really no dummy - and saves the day.Campy? Predictable? Maybe, but I'll take a hundred of these kinds of movies to one of the dark, seedy, over-violent, bloody, depressing, and trashy movies they peddle for entertainment today.GOOD JOB, PIXAR!!
__label__10 I'm finding myself very disappointed by the generally critics about "Cars 2", and I found the nucleus of the issue the fact that Pixar's latest movies have had a very philosophical idea floating around (Wall-e, Up, Toy Story 3) and the "Cars" franchise it's not about that.Does "Ratatouille" have a philosophical script? I'm afraid not, "A Bugs Life"? Sure not, But they accomplish another goal, they were made for another approach, a different image and a different perception of the movie.Is Pixar a philosophy-related books maker? Is Pixar a adult-animations producer? They're not, they're great storytelling guys (They found out a way to link the whole world without making a "Around the World in 80 Days" film), they make the gorgeous 3D scenarios (I was astonished by the great detail of London and Porto Corsa) and they develop almost perfect characters (Who in the world will link as many cars parts with body parts as Pixar did?) and most important, they bring entertainment to the audience, and "Cars 2" fills all those gaps.I'm afraid this is the result of what happens when someone (in this case Pixar) develops a great reputation and suddenly they came up with something different of what we are used to, and it became for some people a "horrifying" creation.I enjoyed "Cars 2" since the stressful opening scene until the happy ending and I think is because I entered the theater hoping to have a great time, fun and a visually amazing experience, and not hoping to find the anthropological greatest creation, and that's exactly what I got.
__label__10 I knew I would like this film, but I was very pleasantly surprised at how amazing I found it. As a hold-out and a bit of a cranky git, I confess I am one of those who find the 3D experience an annoyance. Maybe if they someday come up with a contraption-free (no glasses) way to see it, I might like it. My cinema only had it in 3D. Drat.However, the 3D annoying gimmick aside- I was thrilled by the lush beauty of this movie. I was also gratified by the depth and meaningful quality of the story. Recounting the plot here would not accomplish anything, so I'll skip it. Let us say that if the outcomes of all the plot points were probably predictable, that's OK--- As a "comedy" that is the formula- and it was well served.I was entranced throughout.Emily Mortimer's solid feminine sweetness and likability came through- and Michael Cain was a hoot. And the skillful comedic actor Eddie Izzard's characterisation was also true to his particular form. The cast from the first Cars film all seemed to be here as well- to good effect.I will note that this did not seem like a film made for small children at all. My auditorium was filled with the little guys- a cute and amiable crew, to be sure. But I cannot imagine that they would find the characters and the intricate story intelligible. And the jaw-droppingly beautiful scenery and artwork would also likely be lost on them.I loved this movie!
__label__10 This film seemed great for the plot on which it was placed , very different from one part which I thought was very childish but with a very beautiful teaching, love cars. Lightning Mcqueen my favorite part favorite Mater realizes how foolishly he has been acting. The criminals use the weapon on McQueen during the race, but nothing happens. Mater escapes to warn his friends of a bomb planted in McQueen's pit, but Finn and Holley find out that the bomb is actually planted in Mater's air-filter. They warn him about the bomb, but he flees to protect his friends. As a reward for his heroism, Mater receives an honorary knighthood from the Queen and returns home with his friends, where the cars from the World Grand Prix take part in the unofficial Radiator Springs race. Fillmore reveals that before the last race, Sarge replaced McQueen's Allinol with Fillmore's organic fuel (which prevented McQueen from being affected by the weapon). McMissile and Shiftwell arrive and invite Mater to join them in another spy mission, but he graciously turns it down. He does ask Shiftwell for a date when she returns which she accepts. He gets to keep the rockets they gave him earlier, which he now uses in the Radiator Springs race. Excited!!
__label__10 I know a lot of people didn't like Green Lantern but I don't know why. It was a fun movie with a good solid lead in Ryan Reynolds. It was not as dark as The Dark Knight or V For Vendetta but that is not the nature of Green Lantern. The special effects were good and the casting was fine. Tim Robbins was well cast as Hammond as was Peter Sarsgaard as Hector Hammond. Kudos to Mark Strong as Sinestro. I do hope they do a sequel with him as Sinestro was one of my favourite villains. All up it was a solid film and one I enjoyed immensely. Pity some people were disappointed but to be honest, I don't know what they were expecting as the film stayed reasonably true to the character and the tone of the comic books.
__label__10 I have the Green Lantern Comics (Numbers 49-51 circa 1993) where Hal Jordan goes crazy and smashes the main power battery on OA, and gives up his GL status to a new Green Lantern. But Hal Jordan has always been Green Lantern to me, even with other people putting the ring on over the years.This film accounts the story of how Hal Jordan was chosen by the ring, as the dying Abin Sur sends out the ring to find a successor. Not to get into too much of a spoiler here, so I won't say how that happens in the film, which is slightly different than the original "Origin or Green Lantern" stories I have read when I was a kid, suffice it to say, the people who made this film had 5 decades of Green Lantern stories to get into a 2 hour film. And they did it good.I saw this in 3D and it was adequate 3D, the look of Green Lantern was sort of a blend of all the different changes in costume he had over the years. Ryan Reynolds was a very good Hal Jordan, and Blake Lively a very very good Carol Ferris. A lot of the characters from the comics are in this, there is a "Pieface" but he is not Asian, there is an appearance by Sinestro who in this film is the head of the Green Lantern Corps, which includes veteran Green Lantern Tomar-Re voiced by Geoffery Rush, and Micheal Clark Duncan voicing Kilowog, all much loved GL characters, and the appearance of the Green Lantern Corps was a very good idea.The Guardians of OA looked much like they looked in the comics, they named none of the Guardian Actors save Warren Burton and Salome Jens (who was the main Shape-Shifter in Star Trek: Deep Space 9), the rest of them are, well they are just Guardians. the evil entity Parallax was voiced by one of my favourite actors, Clancy Brown.As far as Production, some great names popped out during the credits: James Newton Howard did a very good score, on par with his King Kong score, and the whole production was designed by another who worked on King Kong: Oscar winner Grant Major who had that same job in Lord of the Rings trilogy - And the costumes were done by another Lord of the Rings veteran, Ngila Dickson, another Oscar winner.As far as the director, I had never heard of Martin Campbell except for Casino Royale and Vertical Limit, but one name did pop out: Stuart Baird, a veteran Editor, who has edited some great films all the way back to the Donner version of Superman II, Gorillas in the Mist, and of course he directed Star Trek: Nemesis which I rather liked.Green Lantern being one of my favourite comic books when I was a kid, I was very gratified to see this film- They really did not take very many liberties with the stories which they cultivated to make this film, so I give it a 10 - Mostly because I can care less what anyone's lame gripes about this film are, I thoroughly enjoyed it, it was done very well.
__label__10 First, I see that this movie has been getting negative reviews. However, it is the first superhero movie of its type. As an avid green lantern fan, I have to say that it does exactly what it should do, set-up the character.I would not have chosen this particular plot line as the basis for the first movie. I would have gone with an approach more like the DC animated cartoon, Green Lantern First Flight. That would have appealed to a much wider audience.However, I can assure you, that if they make sequels, this is a good starting point. Give the movie a chance, see if you like the character, I guarantee you, Hal Jordan's stories only get better from here. Case in point, Geoff Johns has won numerous awards for the comic book series Green Lantern.Anyway, my opinion, see the movie, then watch Green Lantern First Flight. You will appreciate the movie much more that way.As a side note, Green Lantern Emerald Knights, is not really important to the general concept. It is more just background information on a few of the other lanterns, and the only important segment, you get the full story in Green Lantern First Flight.
__label__10 This film is a highly underrated masterpiece, fast paced, fun and true to the comic. The cast is almost right, though they should have used somebody more serious for the lead than Ryan Reynolds, Sam Worthington perhaps. Blake Lively makes a sexy helpless heroine and Peter Sarsgaard does a fine job as a creepy bad guy, albeit one covered in makeup. All in all this deserves to be up there with Superman II, Dark Knight and the first two Spidermans. I really do hope they'll ignore the critics and box office revenue to make a second one, as I feel one of the reasons its flopped is because many people who have watched it had never read the comic beforehand, meaning it was harder to pick up some parts of the plot.
__label__10 I do not understand the various bad reviews on rotten tomato. I took my family and they all loved it and so did everyone else in the theater ( a loud applause confirmed that at the end of the movie). Filled with much more action than the great X-men First Class, I felt that Green Lantern delivered in a great way. Not to mention, this is one film that actually works great in 3D. Personally i loved the film and hope that people will start to go to the movies without checking various reviews before hand. If you like Ryan Reynolds, or if your a die hard Green Lantern (Geoff Johns) reader like myself, you will love this movie. I gave it a 9/10. Very entertaining, not over the top, easy to follow, great special effects and the usual occasional humor from Ryan Reynolds. Defiantly a great summer film. Critics are way to harsh on this film. Trust me give it a chance. According to rotten tomato, Mr. Poppers Penguins is worth going to see over Green Lantern. Give me a break lol come on!!! Take your family to a great summer action film. Do yourself a favor and go see Green Lantern.
__label__10 This file premiered about 2 weeks ago and I couldn't go for scheduling reasons.Then, I put it off because the reviews were so bad. I chatted with co-workers, some who were hopeful and others who were dissuaded because of the bad reviews.My boyfriend and I discussed going to see it last week, but he's not as into superhero movies as I am and since the reviews were bad, we decided to wait till it came out on video.BIG MISTAKE.Luckily, he went out of town on business and I went after work tonight. I am so, so, so happy I did.DO NOT MISS THISON THE BIG SCREEN!!!!!!!Is Ryan Reynolds miscast? Yes, but it doesn't matter: he does a fine job. But it's the villains that you need to see this movie for: Peter Saarsgard's performance is chilling, repulsive, scary and totally amazing. And that CGI baddie named Paralax is just as scary....but he's massive and he does a serious number on whatever city he was attacking.The off-Earth scenes are great, the CGI/effects are very good. And the characters like Kilowog and Sinestro are well-done. Bottom line: if you're like me and you were letting the critics drive your decision to see this film...DON'T LET THEM. It's much better than they're giving it credit for. It's better than Thor and it's better than First Class. Looking forward to Captain America!!!!
__label__10 I have been reading the comic for over 40 years and I was blown away by this. I understand that they can't make the movie exactly like the comic and I am fine with that. I want to say that the entire cast was superb, except for the part of Hector Hammond (the growing forehead was just a bit too nasty for me). Mark Strong as Sinestro was a perfect choice! Ryan Reynolds was also superbly cast. I think that the special effects for the movie were done very well and I applaud the movie makers for making the aliens seem very lifelike. Too many times they seem to get lazy with this or give the aliens very poor makeup. Do not go in with a closed mind on this. Give it a chance and I believe you will be well rewarded. I like the concept for this movie and thoroughly applaud the effort.
__label__10 I attended a special screening for Toy Story 3. I went in with HIGH expectations. I LOVED the first two Toy Stories movies. Toy Story is a beloved franchise that almost everyone that I know loves the first two films. Now how about the 3rd film? Well all I could say is that it lived up to my unbelievably HIGH expectations and then some. This is such a good film. It has the laughs, magic and best of all the entertainment. The new characters in the movie feel like they were in the previous two films, they were that engaging and really worked well in the movie. The best part of the movie has to be the ending, I almost cried and was moved to just about to tears. I truly believe that this is one of the best Trilogies of all time. It might even rival the Lord of the Rings Trilogy.This movie has a real chance to become the First Animated Film to win Best Picture. I surely would not be surprised.10/10 An Amazing End to a Fantastic Series Go Watch It
__label__10 The best magic tricks in the world are ones that cannot be unraveled, reverse engineered or dissected to figure out exactly how they are pulled off. This philosophy is doubly applicable to Pixar's "Toy Story 3", the storyline-ending outro of the beloved Toy Story, uh, story.I feel it relevant somehow to divulge my age, as it somehow validates the powerful emotions evoked throughout the film. I am a 28 year old male, who, fifteen years ago, was fresh into the teen years of supposed adolescence at the release of some weird, 3d animated movie (wait, they can animate with computers?) entitled "Toy Story". This was a pretty bold move, a calculated stroll to the edge of the cliff and a daring leap off into the thin air of creativity and innovation. And it was a hit, ensuring 3d animation a place right alongside (more or less) 2d animation. And naturally, Pixar would be at the forefront, leading the cavalry charge of digital animation ranging from great to gawd-awful."Toy Story 3" starts off as comfortably as possible, with our friends Woody and Buzz Lightyear doing what they do the best...playing with Andy in his world of make-believe adventure. We are then treated to some familiar Pixar progression, like abandonment, solidarity, coming back to friends, and the passing of the torch. Clearly, in the eleven years between this point and when "Toy Story 2" wrapped, a computer revolution or four has occurred, allowing a world of unsurpassed clarity, reality and imagination to shine through like never before. TS1's spark is TS2's candle, and that in turn is TS3's blazing sun.Roll the last fifteen minutes of film. It became clearly obvious that the figurative tables have been turned, because a good number of the adults in the audience (including myself) were sniffling and teary-eyed, while the kids were looking up, likely thinking "jeez mom and dad, they're just toys, get over it".Wasn't it conventional wisdom that just the kids get emotional over losing plastic playthings? With "Toy Story 3", Pixar has shown us one of the greatest magic tricks in modern showbiz history, likely not to be outdone or duplicated, that we all have very real and deep connections to our childhoods and to the things and people that allowed us as kids to be free, and innocent, and pure, and most importantly, to dream. This, to me, is a life lesson worth remembering, to infinity and beyond."Toy Story 3" gets 10 of 10 blazing stars
__label__10 Lee Unkrinch directed "Toy Story 3," the third and presumably final installment in the "Toy Story" movie franchise. One could argue that this is probably the best one yet (1999's "Toy Story 2" remains my personal favorite of the three), and I won't argue with those who think otherwise. I still hold onto "Toy Story 2" for deep personal reasons, but "Toy Story 3" does build upon events foreshadowed in the previous installment, which does gives this film a weighty emotional punch - a rarity in animated films these days.As foreshadowed in "Toy Story 2," Andy (John Morris) has finally grown up; he's 17 now, and is on his way to college in just a few days. His mom is putting pressure on him to get rid of his old toys, either by throwing them out with the garbage, donating them to other needy children, or simply putting them in the attic (a sort of gone-but-not-forgotten-and-within-reach-type of deal).Woody (Tom Hanks), brave leader of the toys and Andy's favorite, manages to dodge a bullet somewhat, but puts himself in the line of fire when Buzz Lightyear (Tim Allen) and the other toys are accidentally thrown out but somehow or another wind up at Sunnyside Daycare, where they are welcomed with open arms by the resident toys there. This introduces us to Lotso (Ned Beatty), the strawberry-scented teddy bear who runs the place, along with the metro-sexual Ken doll (Michael Keaton) and others. As it turns out, this daycare center is actually a prison, and Lotso runs this place with an iron fist; of course, Lotso has a very tragic back-story that explains his evil ways, much like with Jessie (Joan Cusack), who first appeared in "Toy Story 2." So Woody and the other toys must mount a valiant escape if they are to be reunited with their beloved owner before he leaves for college."Toy Story 3" is an amazing film, and a fitting end to a wonderful film series that started in 1995 with the first "Toy Story," which also signaled the arrival of the very illustrious and extremely talented Disney-owned animation studio Pixar. They have yet another significant hit on their hands with this picture. The animation here is at its most life-like and real and it's damn-near flawless and strikingly beautiful, which signals just how far Pixar has come in the 15 years since their first hit with "Toy Story." And every film since then has added significant amounts of realism, weight, and dimension to their animated stories.While "Toy Story 2" had a high nostalgia factor for days long gone by, "Toy Story 3" is a film about the inevitability of children growing up and putting away their toys. There are also themes about the effect of loss, love, and friendship going in the proceedings here. In addition, "Toy Story 3" can also be an incredibly dark film at times - a bold move considering that this is a family film - but there's no need to worry because the fact is that it's all perfectly balanced out amazingly well with some very light-hearted humor, fast and furious action scenes, and stirring emotional moments that just might bring a few tears to your eyes."Toy Story 3" is a triumph of animation and imagination, and I say that as a die-hard "Toy Story 2" fan. What we get here, is a fitting closer (?) to an amazing film series that just continues to surprise again and again with each new entry. It's just a great reminder for all of us heartless adults of better days in our youth that have long gone bye-bye.10/10
__label__10 Star Wars. Indiana Jones. Fistful of Dollars. Bourne. These are all incredible trilogies that can, will, and should stand the test of time. Yes, I am neglecting the fourth Indiana Jones. Upon the mention of the third Toy Story, I was deathly afraid. Afraid because it has some major, major shoes to fill. The original is a masterpiece that changed animation forever, and the sequel is among the best in the history of film (I mean that). The first two Toy Story films are among the best movies of all-time and to this day entire animation studios have failed to duplicate an ounce of the magic contained in Toy Story. Could part 3 even come close to the original two? My friends, I am very happy to say, the answer is a resounding yes.Toy Story 3 does exactly what the first two did, delivered on all cylinders, all aspects of film-making and entertainment. The humor is back, the heart is back, the delightful cast of characters is back. This time, thanks to an incredible script, there's more suspense, more drama, and many more surprises. Like any spectacular trilogy, it wraps up all loose ends. It literally is difficult to find any flaw or any slow moment in this movie, and even if there is, it will immediately be forgiven by the next major laugh or the next major revelation. The predictability factor in this movie is low, and the payoff to all the suspense is extremely high. Guys, this is the go-to movie of the summer, and makes up for any disappointment you have seen this year or last.Just like Toy Story 2's subtle and underlying themes, Toy Story 3 revolves around the group of toys and their latest adventure, but dwells far deeper than that. On the surface, this movie is about the toys in a series of circumstances, winding up in a daycare center that isn't all it seems. At the same time, Andy is heading for college, but Woody isn't quite ready to let go of his owner and the memories that follow. The deeper aspects involve aging, growing up, and moving on. Michael Arndt, the Oscar winner that wrote Little Miss Sunshine, was behind the spectacular screenplay in this third trip in the world of toys. Then with the help of John Lasseter and Lee Unkrich (who serves as the director), we see plenty of references to Pixar, other movies, the previous Toy Story installments, and even we even see nods to the influences of the entire animation studio (Miyazaki).The writing wasn't the only thing that was on par with the first two Toy Story movies. The voice acting cast was once again phenomenal, with popular actors, underrated talent, and great character actors filling the bill. Come on now, just read em': Tim Allen, Tom Hanks, John Cusack, Wallace Shawn, Jody Benson, Estelle Harris, Blake Clark, John Ratzenburger, Ned Beatty, Jeff Garlin, and Michael Keaton. Unlike what Dreamworks pulls off on a yearly basis, Pixar carefully chooses their voice cast in terms of pulling off the best performances, not to generate more money. Because honestly, was there even a point to Angelina Jolie voicing the tiger in Kung Fu Panda? On the other hand, very few can pull an authentic Barbie like Jody Benson (a.k.a. Ariel in the Little Mermaid). It takes reliable and authentic acting to pull at the heartstrings, and everyone definitely was on their A-game.Lee Unkrich directed this movie with incredible pacing and just as much heart and dedication as Lasseter, who was in charge of the first two. The truth is, Pixar directs the movie together, as they share ideas and suggestions amongst each other. This fact can be traced to the similar pacing and directing styles seen in Pixar's better works like Ratatoille, Finding Nemo, and Up. They all have the similar technique of incorporating just as many tears as laughs. But unlike all the other Pixar movies (with the exception of The Incredibles), Toy Story 3 has a heave dosage of suspense and peril, which is climaxed by one of the most exciting animated sequences this side of Castle in the Sky (a Miyazaki adventure masterpiece). Other reviewers have noted this before me, but this Toy Story is quite scary in depth and in imagery at some instances, so be wary of this while watching this with the kids. With so much time invested with these toys, the drama runs a bit high.Bottom Line: Toy Story 3 secures its place in cinema brilliance by becoming the best third installment since Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, the best sequel since Kill Bill Vol. 2, and the best movie we've seen this year. This movie is usually hilarious, sometimes thrilling, and sometimes downright tear-jerking. And yes, just like Up's opening 10 minutes, there is that one major sequence in which Pixar will play with your heartstrings like Eric Clapton playing tears of Heaven. If you enjoyed the first two Toy Stories, there's no need to worry about the third and hopefully final chapter in the quality-filled saga. How Pixar manages to deliver yet again is absolutely beyond me.Walt Disney may not be one-hundred percent proud of his company if he were alive to see it now, but he would be absolutely delighted at seeing what beautiful art Pixar has delivered ever since 1995. Pixar has re-created Walt Disney 's magical methods of storytelling and movie-making, and arguably has taken it a step even further by adding depth to the characters and depth to the overall stories presented. The direction was fantastic, the writing was Oscar-worthy, and the overall production is Best Picture caliber. This is Pixar's best work since Finding Nemo, and a must see by any means necessary. Despite my cynical nature, there's no way I can grade this any less than perfect. Just no way.
__label__10 Since I felt none of the other reviews here do the movie justice, I became compelled to write my own. It is the most inspired film I have ever encountered.The creators of Toy Story 3 have an imagination that is unparalleled. I cannot begin to compare any of the other animated movies that I have ever seen to it. It is a fantasy in an unconventional sense: aside from the talking toys, the environment and settings are typical; commonplace. Yet, the Pixar Team manages to cram every last drop of energy into the incredibly clever story and inventive plot devices out of just common household objects. The animation is so brilliant that it captures shading, lighting, and textures that have yet to be seen on film.Then, Toy Story 3 becomes a beautiful elaboration on the first two, with very clever character development. Its maturity of relationships is concise but witty: Woody, the wise sheriff, leading the other toys with courage and finesse; a spaceman winning the love of a cowgirl; the loyalty of the dog, slinky; the grumpy married potato and his devoted wife; the superficial relationship of Ken and Barbie; the broken spirit of a lost teddy bear. At the same time, Pixar uses a metaphor that is so strong that it drives the audience to love these characters with all of their hearts. It is a similar emotional complex to a happy puppy who is brought into a home and has nothing on its mind but playing with its youthful owners. But these toys never age, and as its owners, once in their playful youths, leave for work and college, these toys still know nothing more than their youth and happiness of living to one day play again. As you leave for work every morning, your dog doesn't know where you go. And every day, he does nothing more than pray that you come back to see him, every day waiting for you to bring out the ball again for a game of fetch.Finally comes Pixar's ability to integrate so many emotions - fear, love, action, and comedy, among others - with each having so much vigor in its own right, that the movie becomes a roller coaster of animation and adventure, wound together by the constant movement of setting and storyline, always keeping the audience guessing on what might happen next. It is a brilliant tale; a perfect movie for children and adults alike. I cannot wait to see it again.
__label__10 I was about 10 or 12 when I watched the first Toy Story in the cinema with my little brother and sister. We were all enchanted! Years later Toy Story 2 came out and it was a blast! Again we all went to the theater to see it and we were so thrilled and excited after the movie! Im 24 now, and just yesterday I was at the Bulgarian gala-premiere of the film. My brother was fortunate to win an invitation for two (he took a photo of himself with our small collection of Toy Story toys and sent it to the website), and we had the chance to see the third part on its first screening... and for the 1st time in 3D! No doubt that the animation is better than ever, the guys from Pixar constantly push the limits, but that's kinda natural for them. But still it feels like 100% Toy Story, with all the improvements, somehow I don't feel this 15-years-wide gap between the first and the third part.What matters more is the (Toy) Story itself! And it is just fantastic! I had really high expectations of this film and honestly, after seeing it, my expectations were surpassed! The plot is really emotional, with so many nostalgic moments... Being kinda grown-up myself, but doing my growing-up with the first two parts of Toy Story, I couldn't relate more with this one! I was really touched! I just wish the theater was empty. Then I could stop holding back my tears! And it's not just t the big story, but also all those little things that go on around it! I don't know how many of those references and gags were in the script and how many were put in there in the making process, but it's just amazing! Even if it's the most dramatic and the darkest of the 3 (as dark as Toy Story can get) the comedy is still there, and I was laughing out loud all the way through! It's a wild roller-coaster, and I'm not even sure who will have more fun with it, if it will be the kids, or their parents! There's just so much more in there for you to notice, admire and laugh at! And I'm sure that after watching the film again I'll find out even more! There's also a really neat Totoro cameo, and it's great of Pixar to pay homage to their old friend, Miyazaki san.The old lovable characters are all here, and they are joined by an army of new ones, and each one of them has his real personality and you can recognize in them characteristics of someone, both visually and with their attitude they express different things and you instinctively feel what these toys stand for. It's really funny to recognize in them some movie archetypes or features of people that you know.I realize that I just poured out tons of superlatives, but there's nothing else you can say about this film! It has everything! (And about how many 3rd parts you can say that?) The only thing I could criticize is that there is one really freaky baby-toy, that can give the creeps to the smaller kids, but it's done on a purpose and for me it was really an enjoyable touch to the atmosphere of the film.To wrap up this review, I will just say - Thank you, Pixar!
__label__10 It was in 1995 that Toy Story signaled the arrival of Pixar, and the rest was history. To date, I have personally always found myself to have enjoyed all of their outputs, and it does seem that Pixar has indeed grown from strength to strength with sophistication in its graphics and attention to detail, but more so that their creative teams have always come out with solid stories to tell, which is always the key beneath all the glossy bells and whistles visuals.And I simply love this installment, not only because it reunites us with the characters whom we have taken to heart as old friends, welcoming them back to yet another big screen outing, but because it has a moving story to tell, and has various elements from action-adventure, comedy and drama all rolled into one, allowing an outpour of a kaleidoscope of emotions as we journey for close to 2 hours with Woody (Tom Hanks), Buzz (Tim Allen), Jessie (Joan Cusack), Mr and Mrs Potato Head (Don Rickles and Estelle Harris), Hamm (John Ratzenberger), Res (Wallace Shawn), Slinky Dog (Blake Clark) and the aliens (Jeff Pidgeon) for one last hurrah.The storyline for all three Toy Story films may share some similar plot lines in having the constant fear of being discarded and unwanted when one turns old, or to obsess with the thought of being forgotten and unappreciated, and almost always comes with a distance to conquer. That continues here in stronger terms given that it's been some 11 years since the last Toy Story film, and that the toys' owner Andy has already outgrown the toys and have chucked whatever's left all into a treasure chest. Making things worst, he's about to relocate to attend college, and thus the anxieties that Woody, Buzz and the rest of the gang has to come to terms with, being provided 4 options of heading for the trash, the attic, being given away or being that rare toy that gets to accompany Andy to his new environment.New toys get introduced by way of how the story got crafted involving a children's day care centre, where we get to meet up with the over-emphasized, metrosexual Ken (Michael Keaton!) from Barbie (Jodi Benson), and others such as the Lotso bear (Ned Beatty), together with those belonging to a new human character called Bonnie (Emily Hahn) who owns a cool plush Totoro (which doesn't speak of course)! Sequels tend to overcrowd their stories with plenty of characters, but it worked perfectly for this installment as other than those which get lines, there are plenty in the background that you may just spot a few that you too may have owned at some point in time. Things also aren't quite what they seem at the day care being the paradise for toys in constantly being played with and loved but never to suffer a heartbreak or to be left feeling unwanted, and provides the basis upon which the story develops, providing plenty of challenges for the gang to overcome (gotta love that Monkey!)What's powerful about Toy Story 3 are the themes that get thrown in, such as that about loss, and the search and fight for things that are worthwhile. It emphasizes the bonds of friendship and courage, while tackling how the lack thereof in abandonment and the feeling of tremendous loss, can someone turn one into a bitter soul, which allowed for the film to take on tragic, darker consequences unseen in the earlier installments, while balancing the light hearted moments. We get to grow with the familiar characters a little more, while having new ones which are just as fun. Just ask Ken!And a word of caution - prepare those tissues and hankies! Parting is such sweet sorrow, and the manner in which director Lee Unkrich deals with will definitely tug at your heartstrings. At least two scenes got to me, one involving facing a consequence of inevitable hopelessness that is a definite edge of your seat stuff only to remind you of how much you really care for the characters, while the other was what I deem as the perfect send off, an au revoir fit for closing the chapter on this Toy Story arc, while leaving room for another to happen (if it does). It moved, and shows how valuable it is to be loved again, and I thought it was pitch perfect. It would be interesting to know how the creators had intended to end the story, but it was brilliant to have chosen with what was.Toy Story 3 is a must see, and it's contending for a space in my top 10 for the year. It's a sequel done right, a tale with a lot of heart, with elements encompassing what essentially is a fitting tribute and farewell to beloved characters that have blazed the trail for computer generated animation to take centerstage. As with all PIxar feature films, a short precedes the main feature, and "Day and Night", like the one offered in Up, comes without dialogue, but with plenty of imagination and again, a solid story for a well animated short film that only Pixar can.
__label__10 Andy is now seventeen years old and is going to college. His mother presses him to decide the fate of his toys, and Andy decides to leave them in the attic, with the exception of Woody that he intends to bring with him. However Andy's mother donates them by accident to the Sunnyside Daycare. The toys are welcomed by Lotso Bear but sooner they discover that the children mistreat them. Further, they are imprisoned in the daycare by Lotso and his gang. But Woody discovers the intention of the evil bear and returns to the daycare to organize the escape of his friends. "Toy Story 3" is a wonderful and touching animation for adults imagine for children. This magnificent tale of loyalty and friendship is fantastic and recommended for the whole family and it is a worth entertainment. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Toy Story 3"
__label__10 Toy Story 3, perhaps the best animation made in cinema history has been, because after seeing this animation, each viewer feel that the characters of interest. The animation really neutral in terms of content and is unique. When you see that, like see professionals movie.Toy story 3 is not well a certain age-specific, anyone can see and enjoy.Other benefits include the animation can be pointed sense of unity and friendship.I think this animation become win best picture in this year.You can see anything in this animation, emotions, courage, love, comedy, action, drama and .... together. Before see this movie, I thought the best animation was "Up" but now, just Toy Story 3In the End, bye bye dear Toy Story 3 ,Thanks Pixar 10/10 Best animation ever
__label__10 As a 28 year old single female lawyer, i have always enjoyed Pixar's movies. I cannot label them as cartoons as there is nothing cartoonish about their stories; they have heart, meaning, feel-goodness with the right touch of class & humor. The formula is A1 yet without feeling overused.Toy Story 3 is once again a hit. We are treated to our favorite familiar characters and reminded again why we like them so. They are heroes who share the same values of team spirit, bonding and camaraderie. No one gets left behind. The technical aspects are again flawless. This is one series of sequels i do not mind seeing for Toy Story 4, 5, 6...this is coming from someone who adamantly refused to watch Toy Story 1 & 2 and UP..up and until last week i forced myself to..and i was so blown away by all three i have never been gladder to be proved wrong.Watch this, and Pixar, don't stop making movies for us.
__label__10 Well, this lived up to the hype, which usually isn't an easy accomplishment. Toy Story 1 & 2 set the bar high so, frankly, I was expecting a disappointment with this one. Thankfully, it didn't happen. "Toy Story 3" was another amazing story in this (so far) trilogy.With a bunch of reviews already here, there is no sense going into the story. For those who haven't seen it yet, three surprises stood out for me: (1) the high number of new characters introduced; (2) the darkness of some of them; this is not always a fun story; (3) the incredibly-touching last 15-or-so minutes. All three of these facets should make this a fun 103 minutes every time I watch the DVD, much like the first two. Also, the artwork is at the usual high standard, especially some scenes in the last half hour at the dump yard, of all places. Finally, what's really cool, too, is that the people who voice the main characters are still the same men and women who did the first two films, with the exception of Jim Varney ("Slinky Dog"), who died in 2000. It's great to still hear familiar and distinctive voices, such as those of Wallace Shawn ("Rex"), John Ratenzenber ("Hamm"), Don Rickles and Estelle Harris ("Mr. and Mrs. Potato Head, respectively).Kudos to all those involved in making this film. They nailed the essence of "Toy Story" and how much loyalty can mean.
__label__10 So I'm 26 and jaded. I most often hate the world and everything in it. Well that being said I absolutely lost myself watching this movie. I had seen the two before it as a kid growing up but I never felt so strong about them as I do with this one. I have spent the last couple weeks after seeing this movie spreading the word about how awesome it was. The theme is so universal that anyone despite their background or feelings can absolutely relate. We've all been to that place were we feel like we've been used and that were done with. The feeling as if we have nowhere to go or anyone to turn to. I really want everyone to experience the overwhelming feelings that boiled inside of me as this movie came to an end. The second the toys held hands at one point my face absolutely exploded and from there it didn't relent. Seriously I could not breathe it was almost to much. But its not. Go see it. Now.......................................what are you waiting for?
__label__10 I went in with HIGH hopes and i was not disappointed! The first toy story movie was by far my favorite movie as a child, i literally watched it two or three times a day. Im emotionally attached to the toy story movies so this movie felt like the closing chapter to my childhood. Aside from my emotional attachment this movie was still amazing! I laughed, which is expected since its the all might pixar. But i also cried...i was kinda embarrassed haha. I was holding back the tears in this one scene but since i don't want to spoil anything so ill stop there. But by the end of the movie i couldn't hold back and instead of watery eyes i was in full tears haha. Everyone should watch it!
__label__10 did anyone else cry like a little baby at the end? This sequel really exceeded my expectations greatly. i was almost expecting crap, but what i was given was an animated 3d masterpiece that makes you laugh, cry, and occasionally make you fear for the toys. my only problems were, no little Bo Peep, and, ( you may think i am a jerk for this) if the toys died at the end i would have been sadder, but it would make more sense for the letting go of your childhood part of the storyline, don't get me wrong, i love the originals and the current ending, it just would have made more sense with the storyline. thank you cast, crew and others, for this wonderful tear jerking, sometimes dark, masterpiece, about letting go of your childhood.
__label__10 Is "Toy Story 3" good? Yes, it is. Is it exciting? Yes. Is the animation good? Excellent. Is it worth the money? It's worth. Is it better than the previous two? Much, much better. "Toy Story 3" is an excellent movie for all ages.First, the animation. The moves of the characters are simply perfect. Ken and Barbie, they're robotic moves are so breathtaking. The moves are simply so detail and mesmerizing. The appearances. Not much to talk about. But, the appearances of the characters were perfectly designed. The main characters were really cool. Ken and Barbie, they're really designed in detail. For Barbie, the line where is visible in the neck was really detail. Ken is also really detail especially with his body. Lot-o-Huggin'-Bear was also carefully designed by the paper which often appears on dolls listing the warning or whatever.The way the movie is presented. Very well done. In around 90 minutes of running time (excluding "Day & Night"), the movie was not boring at all. It had some laughable expressions which are pretty funny. I liked it when Buzz turns into Spanish mode where most of the audience laughed. That moment was hysterical. The scenes were also thrilling like the end scene (which I'm not going to tell you) or the scenes in Sunnyside. I thoroughly enjoyed the film.The new characters. Well, I think there's one negative point. I think little kids around the age of 3, 4 or 5 might be scared with the appearance of Big Baby, because, his appearance is kind of scary for little kids.The 3D effects. Not so cheesy and not so breathtaking but pretty good. The depths of the items in the film were not bad. The sound acting. They were really good. Tom Hanks on Woody was really good. He really projected his voice until he becomes a real Woody. Tim Allen on Buzz Lightyear was also good and satisfying. He really sounded like a real astronaut or space ranger. The others were also good. But, I think Tom Hanks on Woody still has the best projection of voice in the film.Final thing, the short film attached to it: "Day & Night". It was shockingly, awfully, crazily cool. That short film was quite funny. It was really good. Overall, the short film compliments to the film to be a very good movie.A short advise, you might want to prepare some tissues to wipe your tears as there are some pretty sad moments in the film. The scenes were just so sad that that's another praise for Lee Unkrich on his directing. So, if you don't prepare those tissues, I hope you have something you can use to wipe your tears.As an amazing end to such a magnificent trilogy, "Toy Story 3" is a must watch movie. Watching it in 3D is not a bad choice. Your kids will definitely be thrilled watching this film. I truly believe this is the best animated film of the year, or even the best film of all 2010 films. If you haven't watched this yet, what are you waiting for? Go purchase your tickets and enjoy this masterpiece. I guarantee you that you won't regret watching this movie. Overall, I give this movie a perfect score of 10 stars. I wish a fourth installment would be made.
__label__10 When I heard that Toy Story 3 was coming out, I felt two things: excitement and worry. Why the worry? Because despite Pixar's consistency with making fantastic films, I didn't want Toy Story's reputation to be marred by a slump in the franchise (Indiana Jones 4 anyone?).All these worries went away when I saw the film. It really is hilarious, and really tense in parts! It had everyone in the cinema genuinely cracking up. For me, it was a much better film than Toy Story 2, and I liked Toy Story 2 a lot. It's always great to catch up with gangs of characters as likable as these toys. I'm glad that they had material that was consistently hilarious throughout the movie and didn't just have a cop-out story to get more money from the franchise (again, Indiana Jones).One thing to note is how touching this movie is as well - people in the cinema were genuinely crying and upset. I don't cry at films, but this had me very close indeed.Anyhow, go to see this movie! You won't be disappointed and will laugh throughout. It's suitable for children and adults alike. :)
__label__10 After seeing Toy Story 1 and 2, they quickly became my favourite set of films ever and just last year when i heard there was going to be a 3rd, my heart immediately sank. As with sequels before, i thought it was going to be aimed at an entirely new audience, for the sake of profit and would squeeze the love i had for the series right out of it.Then i began to read about interviews and the plot line and how it continues from both previous films, with Andy just a child back then, he has now become a teenager ready for college. This got me a little excited and for the rest of the year building up to it i was looking more and more forward to it.Usually, walking out of cinema doors, i have a feeling of disgust and disgrace having just watched an awful film for a high price. So, it would have been safe to say my expectations for this film were ridiculously high, i mean there is not many series' of films that keep followers for 15 years.It felt like a mere 10 minutes that i had been in my seat when the film finished. I was on the verge of tears, had a huge smile on my face and almost felt the need to jump up and clap. There are few films like this out there, Toy Story 1 and 2 being the exceptions. It continued the story so well, you still had the same love for the main characters that you always did.For a film aimed at children, it had an amazing plot, that never confused but always kept you guessing. It is perfect for all ages, whether old or young, it is a magical story.My only criticism would be at the lack of characters from previous films. It was explained immediately whether they had been sold or lost but i really felt disappointed that some old favourites were missing.Still apart from that, the film was faultless. I recommend going immediately and watching it in 3D. Nothing really pops out in your face, but it is made really well to fit 3d.
__label__10 I am now 20 years old and so, it was at the age of 7 when I first watched Toy Story. I found it amazing that the toys were alive and all the story was superb either. When I found out that a 3rd part was up to be released I had been dreaming of it all the time. So, I went to watch it. In the theatre there were parents with their kids and thankfully they were really quiet. When the film started with the narration of the ages that had passed, I felt so touched. During the film I was back in my childhood when everything seemed -and were- so easy and I was with no concerns. All the purity of that age came and hit me, although I knew that would happen. I admit that I first found the story average, but when the film was on I was enchanted. There were no thoughts in my mind. I was there watching a masterpiece that in my point of view can be truly appreciated by only us, those who matured since the first movie, but still carrying all the heroes into our hearts. I must admit that I was up to cry in several moments, especially when the toys were in fire and in the end. Leaving the cinema and though I cried -cause, yes, I did!- I was too happy. Entering the house I was singing the theme song...I highly recommend it to you all!!!! 10/10...
__label__10 I am 52 years old and have seen an embarrassingly huge amount of movies over the past 45+ years. Toy Story 3 is one of the best movies I have ever seen.It took me a few days to figure out why I was so affected by the movie. Toy Story 3 is really funny and imaginative, but so are a lot of other movies. I could see that the audience, including my own two children (16 and 11), were deeply engrossed in the film, laughing and crying, and bursting into applause together after the final scene. It is very rare today to see a theater audience having such a deep and common understanding of something as a group. I had seen this occur more frequently in the past, however, so the shared experience (while very nice) isn't really what makes the movie so great for me.I think that the movie is great because Woody has to struggle with his age and purpose in way that seems so shockingly real. In the first part of my life, I only wanted to find a role that was worthy of me, an education or a job or a spouse that would let me....well...what I did wasn't really important, only that I be the greatest at whatever unique thing I was supposed to do. In the second part of my life, I found myself doing something that wasn't unique - it was pretty much what others did; Nor was I the greatest - I was only average. But I did it anyway, because the things I was to trying create and help, both in job and family, those things were important, even if they were ordinary. In the third part of my life....I sense there will come a time when I will still be loved but not needed. And it has to be that way, because otherwise death would be too hard to bear, for me and for those I leave behind.I can accept all of this....but still be really happy when Andy plays with his toys one last time.
__label__10 I went in to the movie cinema to see this film with high hopes and expectations judging by the first and second films' brilliance and must I say that I was in no way disappointed and can actually state that this film is the best of the trilogy. These 2 movies were my favorites as a small child. When I say that this is the best of the three I bid no demotion of the standard of the first and second installments. I applaud Pixar on maintaining their perfect record.The film starts with a high action but still childish scene. True fans of the series would recognize that the scene is a revamped version of the two playtime scenes involving One- Eyed Bart and Pork Chop. Then starts a montage that shows how far and attached the toys have grown to Andy, their owner. Andy then plans to put the toys into the attic but they are accidentally put out with the trash. Later they venture to a daycare center in which first impressions were deceiving The real luster of the film hits a climax in the last 30 - 40 minutes in which we get to take in the emotional journey that the toys have made together as they head for an incinerator. The movie closes on Andy playing with his childhood friends for the last time. I bawled like a baby at this point.The new characters were a lively addition to the old gang. My personal favorite being Ken (Michael Keaton), the spunky, cool dream hubby of Andy's little sister's Barbie Doll. Barbie and Ken form their own little sub plot together with a rather amusing fashion scene. Also occurring were omissions of previous toys including Wheezy the penguin, Bo Peep and the toy soldiers who exile at the movie's beginning.Pixar have once again showed us that any movie that comes out their door will be coated in gold. Woody and Buzz have yet again proved to be Pixar's golden boys and the trilogy has ended with what is in my opinion the best movie ever made!
__label__10 I left the theater in 1995 after seeing the original Toy Story strangely moved. I was only six years old, and I'm not sure I had even fully grasped the revolutionary CGI for what it was (it probably just registered as animation to me, and I didn't quite understand its impact), but I did know – at least on a basic level of storytelling – that it was fantastic. Four years later I went to see the sequel with my younger sisters and felt the exact same way I had the first time. Even at a fairly young age I knew there was something special about these films.Many times nostalgia has to compensate for quality (or lack thereof) in your perception of entertainments as you age. Suddenly Mac and Me isn't as awesome as you once found it to be. You revisit films from your childhood and learn to appreciate them based solely on the memories they conjure up, trying to block out the reality that, hey, This kinda sucks.That never happened with the Toy Story movies. As I grew older, as I saw them more and more times, they only seemed to improve. New layers appeared – adult humour that I never appreciated when I was ten but suddenly blindsided me. Characters that revealed new depths; emotional scenes that only became increasingly poignant and meaningful, like that amazing scene where Buzz first becomes aware of his own mortality as a toy that can't really fly, or when he learns to cope with that fact by embracing the fact that he can instead fall rather well (with style).The point of this rambling trip down memory lane is that Toy Story, the whole legacy of it, means a lot to me. I grew up with these pictures and never tired of returning to them, and they were always there for me like a good friend is. I approached Toy Story 3 with the slightest of reservations, fully trusting Pixar, and yet wondering how they could possibly produce anything that would live up to such high standards.Well, suffice to say, they did it – if Toy Story 3 isn't the best of the series, then that's merely because it comes eleven years after the last one and it hasn't been given some time to work its full magic on us. This is every bit as engaging, heartwarming and funny as the first two films – but it's also the saddest, most human and most moving.The plot has already been outlined by other critics, so I don't feel a need to recap anything. Nor do I want to inadvertently spoil any key moments (and please, for your own sake, avoid reading too much about the movie before going to see it – some reviewers are a bit too keen on giving away the ending, although it's understandable given how surprisingly emotional it is).The introduction of new characters is seamless – Ken (voiced by Michael Keaton) is hilarious but thankfully not overused, and the other assorted variety of toys, including Lots-o'-Huggin' Bear (Ned Beatty), are fine additions to the series.And Woody and Buzz (Tom Hanks and Tim Allen, respectively) pick up right where they left off, and you feel, in a weird way, like you're visiting old pals. The movie features the best animation of the trilogy, and the second half – which is darker than the two previous installments – makes excellent use of lighting and cinematography. The climactic finale is incredibly intense (especially for a "kids movie") and features particularly impressive visuals. Many reviewers have noted that they cried during the finale, and even I must admit that I came pretty close.In a summer full of bores, disappointments and under-achievers, Toy Story 3 is not merely the first thoroughly satisfying motion picture of the season – it's the only truly moving one. It is fairly ironic, perhaps, that we must turn to movies about pieces of plastic to find such poignant reflections upon human nature, but then again, I'm not sure I'd want to have it any other way.
__label__10 I was somewhat hesitant to watch this movie. I didn't want it to be too dark and bleak and depressing. I mean, it was somewhat dark, but there was hope at the end. It's not a mindless action movie. It's definitely an action movie - but a good story I thought. Very entertaining! The story was well done. The characters were great - especially Marcus. You felt what he felt. I think this movie deserves higher than a 6.9 - it's current rating (as of 12-9-09). If you're a fan of Terminator and T-2 - then see this. I did see T3 but was not impressed w/ it and cannot remember much about it (when something doesn't leave an impression, it's usually not that good) - in my humble opinion. I dunno - maybe I need to see it again. I really like Marcus in this movie. I won't give anything away - no spoiler here. Just watch this - you should like it. :-)
__label__10 Terminator 4 is the best since the first one. It is better than the third and the second. And, unlike the relatively useless and inconsequential plot of the second movie, this one advances the story.They dropped the ball on one thing: Dr. Silberman should have been present in the opening at the execution. It would have been a well-placed and appreciated cameo.Kudos, can't wait for the next one. Anyone who is a real fan and not a teenage boy angry that its PG-13 or a film-school hipster, will love it.Kyle Reese was awesome, for anyone who was worried.
__label__10 I really cannot understand all the negative comments about this film. I am a fan of the Terminator series and truly believe that this film stays true to the original story and actually adds to it tremendously. Now we all know how rubbish T3 was and how utterly disappointing that was but the same cannot be said for this. I went into the cinema not knowing anything about what the film may contain and I did not read any reviews before seeing it. I loved it, and my wife, who is not a fan of the series,could not care less but did think it was good (not as good as I thought it was I hasten to add) so fans of the series may like it more. For all of you that have not seen this yet, go and watch it. You will not be disappointed.
__label__10 I really expected a bad movie considering it was "Charlie's Angels" McG at the helm, but it actually had the same "B" movie feeling the other three had...I got the same great vibe from it I got from some '70s flicks like "Soylent Green" or "Omega Man"...intense stories augmented bu action and some interesting characters that don't necessarily need a lot of screen time to make their marks in the story.The production was outstanding...this will a great demo disc on BR, especially with the sound design...very layered and intense. The special effects were great and everything from sets to make-up to costumes and photography was a step up from the earlier films, giving it an epic feel. It has a gritty look to the action that suits the setting and story perfectly. The physical action were really well done...it was refreshing to see some very convincing integration of the practical sets along with the now-standard CG stuff that blended well together and again, added an intense realism to the movie without being over the top. Stand-outs include the sensational "Harvester" chase scene and some "throwaway" moments like the HK air patrolling the streets of LA and toppling a building in it's wake and Connor jumping into the waves to meet the Resistance Leadership....cool, quick stuff that wasn't lingered on, but looked great.Another surprise here is the choice of Danny Elfman, and his score sounds quite good...he gives the music a more traditional orchestral sound opposed to the over-use of synthesizers that many action films rely on these days. It was cool to hear Fidel's main motif pop in once in a while at just the right times.Now the cast...as mentioned by many other reviews, this is definitely Sam Worthington's show...the story invests a lot of time in Marcus' journey through the film an it helps that Worthington does a really good job with his physical performance (especially with those little nods to Arnold's "stillness" along the way) and he comes across well acting-wise too. I found his struggle with what he really was provided the most poignant moments in the movie...a man trapped in a new existence as a Terminator, fighting to stay connected with his flawed humanity and looking for some kind of redemption for his own past and ending up providing a "salvation" for the resistance and it's new leader....cool stuff and an interesting twist on the whole "Terminator" story.Bale was a supporting character compared to Marcus. Bale's John Conner seemed a little one-note with his performance throughout the film. There were some cool moments with him though, like when he pops on that GnR tune before capturing the MotoTerminator that brought back memories of the Connor character's motorbike stunts in T2. I also liked that it was pretty clear that not everyone in the resistance (most notably the higher-ups) though he was "all that", but the grunts in the trenches did...gave him an everyman appeal that was pretty cool. His best moments though, were the quiet ones...listening to his mother's voice for what must have been the umpteenth time to try and gain guidance and insight into the situations he found himself in...I thought that really illustrated just how much he really depended on that and how, by the end of the movie, he had to come out from his mother's shadow and come up with his own plan of action...his interactions with Marcus have altered his game and Bale did take us through that process...Another show-stealer was Anton Yelchin as Kyle Reese...he is almost literally channeling Michael Biehn (right down to talking through clenched teeth) as the young resistance fighter Reese. He really brought across the idea of a young man looking for someone or something to follow...and his interaction with Marcus really brought that out and Yelchin just nailed it.Both of the female characters are a little short-shifted here, but both Howard and Bloodgood do a good job in the brief scenes they have. Neither come across as simple damsels-in-distress, rather it's plain to see that they both play important parts in the resistance.Like the recent "Star Trek" picture, this one had a lot of visual nods (and some obvious lines) to the earlier films, from the cool opening credits looking similar to the ones the first film to a lot of physical gags from other movies as well, especially with Marcus. The action sequences were well-staged and packed some punch. And yes, the Arnold cameo featured some excellent work from ILM...very well integrated both visually and in the story....very cool.The ending? The "leaked" one of having Connor killed and coming back as a Terminator might have been shocking, but ultimately it would have rendered the entire saga pointless. The current ending works much better in giving his character some dramatic pause as he goes on in how the war with Skynet is fought...the sacrifice of Marcus alters the future Connor has been expecting to unfold because of the messages from his mother...and now, the future is unknown and he has to lead the resistance based on his own judgment instead of the "road map" laid out by those recordings. The main thing that really shines though in this movie for me is that it really looks like an effort by folks that really cared about the Terminator saga and wanted to do a great job. As with any of these "franchise" movies, there are always fans who disagree with the approach taken with the film or story elements or casting choices or whatever. But it works great for me...I hope this movie finds a big, receptive audience on DVD and Blu-Ray...
__label__10 So last night we finally watched the latest installment of the Fast Saga:Fast and Furious 7. In September 2013 Paul Walker died during the filming of "Fast & Furious 7″ in a car accident. To honor him the film was completed with a modified script. The result is not only a furious action blockbusters, but also a worthy memorial to this deceased star. While Walker had already shot most of his scenes to complete the film, for the remaining parts Walkers brothers Caleb and Cody had been used in some scenes with CGI and body doubles. In the end the additional work and time spend on this was very well worth it. The fact that one of the main characters was killed during the shooting of this movie won't be noticed in the film until the very appropriate sentimental end.With its great charm, wit and attention to detail "Fast & Furious 7″ is a perfected action blockbuster. The greatest strength of the film is in my opinion that it never takes itself too serious despite its sad history. If you are a moviegoers that values a sophisticated and logical plot development and a realistic representations you are wrong here. This movie got hyperbole wherever you look, but that is not a negative thing in my opinion.Compared to the previous installments "Fast & Furious 7″ tops the predecessors in all respects and goes the extra mile. You see tuned cars drop out of a plane, drivers changing cars during full speed (several times) or crashing though the window of one Abu Dhabi Skyscraper only to end up in a neighboring skyscraper again. Epic.Especially the scene where the wounded agent Hobbs dismisses himself from Hospital with the words "Daddy has to work" by blowing up his plaster arm by flexing his biceps may soon gain cult status. In addition to the well-known stars of the previous movies, including the spin offs "Tokyo Drift", the cast was even expanded by by two high-calibers starring Jason Statham and Kurt Russell who present themselves in top form and as a valuable addition to the movie.You can tell that for everyone involved in the movie it was a matter of the heart to put Paul Walker the worthy monument that is Fast and Furious 7. For me this latest installment is till date by far the strongest film in the series and despite the tragic circumstances a huge fun ride.
__label__10 I wasn't quite sure what to expect from the seventh installment of this successful franchise but I was totally blown away by the seamless and well choreographed fight scenes and car chases. What makes this movie stand out from its predecessors is how it goes beyond the modding of Japanese street cars to engaging the viewer with a very decent storyline that pulls together all of the previous movies. I particularly liked the use of the cut-scenes from previous films that reminded viewers of the continuity of one helluva story.Of course, the other side of going to see this movie was knowing the loss of its prime star - Paul Walker - to a shocking car accident last year, and wondering how much of a role he would play in the film and how well they would work their CGI magic into his role. Needless to say, it was very well done (even though you could tell when they did use CGI of his face in a few scenes).Not trying to give anything away, but the final 5 minutes was a fitting send off for Paul. I'm sure there was a few takes for the final scene on the beach.Great film. 10/10 from me.
__label__10 ***WARNING! This review contains spoilers, if you haven't seen this film, you might want to before reading this review!*** Now, that I have watched the highly-anticipated feature film in the Fast & Furious film saga, this seventh installment was released on April 3rd, 2015 to extremely positive reviews and eventually broke the $1 billion dollar mark in three weeks after it's April 3rd release against a over extended budget of $250 million dollars over the unexpected tragic death of Paul Walker, who died on November 30, 2013.With the previous installments being set between 2 Fast 2 Furious and The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift, this seventh Fast and Furious film, now titled just "Furious 7" is the first film of the series to mostly take place after the third film.I'm gonna try and explain the plot in the best way that I can without making anyone sad.After defeating Owen Shaw and his crew and clearing their records, Dominic Toretto, Letty Ortiz, Brian O'Conner and the rest of the crew are able to return to the United States and live normal lives again. Brian begins to deal with fatherhood, while Dominic helps Letty regain her memory. Owen's other brother, Deckard Shaw breaks into the secure hospital the comatose Owen being held in and swears vengeance against Dom. The crew goes to Han's funeral and both Shaw and Toretto prepares to fight but they don't. Hobbs and Shaw enters a fight, but Hobbs is injured and rushed to the hospital by Elena Neves.This leads into the Toretto house being blown up and a man named Frank Petty informs Dom that he will help him in stopping Shaw's plan if he gets something called the God's Eye, a computer device that can track a specific person and the creator, Megan Ramsey. They go to Abu Dhabi, where they get the flash drive with the God's Eye.This leads into a very, very long car chase and a final fight ensues between Dominic and Deckard in a Street Fighter-like type. Hobbs then come and shoots and kills Jakande. When Dom remains unconscious, the team fears that he is dead. As Letty cradles his body, she reveals that they are married and she has regained her memories and Dom soon regains consciousness. Later, Deckard is locked away in a CIA person and Dominic and his crew realizes that Brian is better off with his family. In the final scene, Dom and Brian drives up at a stop sign. As Dom remembers the times that he has had with Brian, they bid each other farewell and drives off in separate directions.I'm not gonna spend all my time on this film, but this film is the best of the Fast & Furious series, along with the first film, the second film, the third, fifth and sixth film.The comedy and drama is really well-thought out and director James Wan and Chris Morgan deserves a lot of credit for picking up where this film left off in the previous film. The film does not feel like it is long at all, it feels like it's an hour and a half long and at 134 minutes, some people say it is the longest, but it really isn't.The action is just incredible and this movie has a lot of action. The fight between Kara and Letty is well choreographed and done carefully. The car chases are just as intense and action-packed as they are in the other films in the series. The fight between Dominic and Deckard Shaw rips off Street Fighter: The Video Game, but I like how it turns out and the way the two jumps to each other to fight with car tools is beautifully shot and pretty.The music by Brian Tyler is just emotionally powerful, intense and super-cool. The acting is just incredible and powerful. Vin Diesel, Michelle Rodriguez and Jordana Brewster as Dominic Toretto, Letty Ortiz and Mia Toretto are all really great in their performances in the film. Ludicrous and Tyrese Gibson as Tej and Roman are just as funny and serious as they were in 2 Fast 2 Furious, Fast Five and the previous film, Furious 6. Jason Statham is okay as Deckard Shaw. Dwayne Johnson as Luke Hobbs is incredible in this film. The other actor I will definitely mention is the late Paul Walker, in his final film appearance ever as Brian O'Conner, for the seventh and final time is just sad, emotional and really great and I'm really glad that his young brothers Caleb and Cody, finished his remaining scenes. The send-off they give for his character is just sad, even with the Wiz Khalifa and Charlie Puth original song, "See You Again" song playing at the end and the montage of scenes from the previous movies in the franchise.Overall, I love FURIOUS 7. It can get sad at the end, but I still love the heck out of this movie and I have no problem seeing the next film, but I am sad that this is Paul Walker's last film appearance and really great performances and it is a well done film.I'm giving it an 10 out of 10.
__label__10 Amazing tribute to Paul walker, And what a wonderful memory of him... the Movie still stands in my eyes.. Amazing, extraordinary.. Some movies only stand in our eyes and this movie is.. The whole cast is marvelous and each and every minute of the film was written well... Pin Diesel stands back for family.. Paul as his brother.. Superb Ending.. I liked it.. The best movie of the decade.. Paul is amazing to watch in the screen as a father , brother.. Gibson is in his comic sense and the air diving and the stunts are .. Whooah.. One Last Ride.. Jason Statham blocks Rock.. Paul Drives.. Michelle is amazing.. Samma.. The team has really made a great effect.. For Paul..
__label__10 fast and furious series is not made to get Oscars or golden globes these movies are made for the young people to have a thrill and bang for their money.This movie has all the youth asks for Action, very little drama,hot babes in bikinis, car chases and of course the stuff getting blown up to pieces. if you are a young person between 18 to 28 you'll love it and if you young by heart you'll adore it.but if you are looking for award winning performances this wont be the movie for you so critics might not like it for having the same old chase and kill concept of action movies but youth will love it because they once more saw their favorite actors do what they do best.drive cars and then do whats unthinkable. also to add as this movie is like a tribute to the passing of Paul walker(R.I.P.)they have managed to put on the best farewell moments for him using CGI and body doubles of course and i think think movie justifies it very much.so go on watch this movie i bet you'll feel nostalgic all over again and also in the end you might end up in tears so do bring the tissues with you
__label__10 The Fast Furious franchise has come a far way, and this particular movie is far the best one. It is packed full of action, comedy and amazing cars. I would definitely recommend this for anyone who loves fast furious. The movie follows Tokyo Drift so it would be a good idea to watch all the movies again before watching this one. The ending is great and overall i think the director and the actors have done a great job!! Tyrese Gibson is one heck of a funny actor, Vin Diesel has done a great job in his role, So has Jordana Brester, Dwayne Johnson, Ludicrous and Jason Statham in his great role as the antagonist in the film. Tje plot of the story is great. I was hoping for another movie of ff8 but however i think it was appropriate for the team to stop here as it would be quite disrespectful to make another one without Paul Walker.
__label__10 Well... well.. well..... Let's see Everyone knows how traumatic it was to lose an actor and a person like Paul Walker. Specially for the Fast & Furious team. It cannot be described in words or any other means. However the way this film has paid a tribute to him is something which every actor wants living or dead. Movie is simply awesome and there is no question about it. The reason simply being it was not complete when Paul was taken away from us and the story writer and director must have been in terrible agony then. But the way everything has been put together not a single soul can believe what they just saw after watching this movie. However I was reading comments and reviews from other users and I find it sad to see that people don't give importance to little but important things in a movie. For instance I was shocked to see Tony Jaa in this movie. There is a full on action sequence where he is literally making an Ong Bak 4 out of this movie but people didn't find time to write about him. I think he was simply awesome. The best thing about this movie is Jason who is simply a Pit Bull from UK, a live time bomb, the transporter who can transport you to hell in no time and a very dangerous Killer elite in one... So my recommendation to people would be, pay a tribute to Paul, go and watch this movie.... For Paul
__label__10 I went expecting big things from this movie, and unsurprisingly I was not surprised. This movie was everything that I was expecting. From cars, to guns, to strong female characters (I.E the beautiful and talented Michele Rodriguez and Rhonda Rousey, amongst many others.) The guys were also great, with. Vin diesel, djimon Honsou and Jason statham (all actors I have liked watching in other films they have done.) Dwayne Johnson pulling out the big guns. I really would recommend this movie and I did appreciate the farewell they gave 'the late' Paul walker at the end of the film. I do think that he will be missed by so many who have watched his films. R.I.P Mr walker. Hoping their might be something else this great group of actors can do together in the future.
__label__10 James Wan did a really good job. :)A good movie keeps you excited at first, WOW in the middle & OMG in the end. & this is exactly what you will get in this movie. Furious 7 is so wild, engaging & exciting from the beginning till the very end.There is all in one movie,,,action ,love story, comedy omg. some scenes were so funny that everyone were laughing in the movie theater. It's totally unbelievable how a car chasing movie like Fast & Furious could lead to a mind blowing actions movie, & it gets better from scene to scene. What a good way to end & remember Paul. You'll be missed, Paul Walker! I admit i was crying in the end, so for those who loved Paul, you will cry....i guarantee it :)
__label__10 I had to admit that this was the best movie in the Fast & Furious franchise. James Wan had done a terrific direction and the cast were just a perfect team. The movie was the final movie of late Paul Walker and I am happy to see his last movie which is fantastic. After the success of The Conjuring, Director James Wan has not let me down with the movie. The stunts were fantastic, the views were amazing and acting was above all. The movie is a great tribute to Paul Walker. Apart from regular characters, Jason Statham who played the villanious role of Deckard Shaw did justice with his role. The movie was overall a brilliant one under great direction. This is a must watch for every action movie lovers. This is the best movie I have seen so far in 2015. I go with 10/10 for this fantastic and stunning action movie.
__label__10 I'm honestly surprised by the bad reviews on this site for this film. I've seen my fair share of zombie movies and this is my favourite. I've watched it a good 10 times and it doesn't take the fear away. The thought behind it that there is a was to defeat this disease is brilliant, as is the acting. I also love 28 days later and class is as the same type of zombie horror movie. I loved it.
__label__10 I was so intrigued about this movie. I had a terrible feeling of disappointment because First Class was absolutely fine and riveting. That one was even better than X-Men 2 (the last one directed by Brian Singer before this). So I tried to went to see this with low expectation. And what a wonderful entertainment and surprising thoughtful story I found here. Days Of Future Past is the best X-men movie so far for two main reasons:Fans of the original trilogy and First Class will definitely enjoy this one thanking its nostalgia and its perfect and well balanced mix between the original characters and the new ones (with just a few ones who maybe deserved more credit, but is not at all a problem for the movie). & This movie delivers a surprising top notch entertaining with a potent story and some good twists that help to live up expectations mixed with terrific special effects and cinematography. 3-D is very cool here.The actors are fantastic. Fassbender and McAvoy still delivering amazing performances meanwhile Stewart and Mckellen give their reflections in the same excellent way that in the trilogy. Hugh Jackman finally finds his character as a true important one in comparison with the last movies. Wolverine/Logan finally has a proper treatment in this movie that will help anyone who could be annoyed with his solo adventures to love him again. They are the five main stars of the story with the inclusion of a spectacular and skillful Mystique (impressive Jennifer Lawrence who steals almost every scene of hers) who is undoubtedly the sixth one. The other actors made good performances and make possible the transitions of the story until the amazing finale.It has been so many comparisons with The Avengers. Let me tell you something with all my respect. I found this one truly better. X-Men: Days of Future Past will please the fans and moviegoers and will inject fresh blood and joy to the franchise. This is a terrific time at the movies. Don't miss the opportunity to see it.
__label__10 X-Men: Days Of Future Past' serves as a sequel to both 'X-Men: First Class' (which is excellent) and 'X-Men: The Last Stand' (which is pretty bad). Now, I used to be a pretty big X-Men fan a few years ago, but after the disappointments of 'X-Men: The Last Stand' and 'X-Men Origins: Wolverine', I kind of just stopped caring about the franchise, even though the subsequent two movies were actually very good (the aforementioned 'X-Men: First Class' and then 'The Wolverine'). That being said, I was still looking forward to 'Days Of Future Past', what with it being the return of the old 'X-Men' crew, and I was also moderately familiar with the 'Days Of Future Past' comic. I was just expecting it to be good though, but it turns out not only is 'Days Of Future Past' the best X-Men movie yet, it's also one of the best comic-book movies ever made.In 'Days Of Future Past', the X-Men of the future are facing extinction due to the sentinels which threaten to wipe them all out. They send Wolverine back in time to 1973 where he must recruit Professor X, Magneto and Mystique in order to change the course of history so that the X-Men may survive.First things first, this is a time travel movie, and time travel movies normally either go very well or very badly. 'Days Of Future Past' marks an occasion where it goes very well, as the time travel logic in this movie is very well thought out and makes perfect sense, I can't pick any holes in it. This movie even manages to validate 'X-Men: The Last Stand' and 'X-Men Origins: Wolverine', which is something that I thought could never be done. It even feels weird just saying that, because righting the wrongs that those movies made is a huge, monumental task, yet this movie pulls it off perfectly.For a movie that's crowded with so many characters, it's surprising that all of the characters included feel meaningful and aren't shoehorned in. We have Hugh Jackman returning as Wolverine, and there's not much to say about him that hasn't already been said. He is Wolverine, the role is made for him and he absolutely owns it. James McAvoy and Michael Fassbender are incredible as Charles Xavier and Erik Lensherr respectively, their characters have an amazing relationship and the two of them are just phenomenal at pulling it off. We also have the future X-Men cast with the like of Patrick Stewart, Ian McKellan and Ellen Page, and while they have a lot less screen time they're still great. I was surprised at how prominent a role Jennifer Lawrence had as Mystique, over the past few months I've had a growing dislike towards Jennifer Lawrence but I can't deny that she is great in this role. Then we have all of the new characters, like Bolivar Trask (Peter Dinklage), Bishop (Omar Sy) and Blink (Bingbing Fan), all of whom are great. But there is one new character who is greater than all, and that character is Quicksilver.Quicksilver in this movie is perfect. In fact, it's worth seeing this movie just for him. He doesn't have a huge amount of screen time and it comes fairly early on in the movie, but he is the best part of this film by far. There is one particular sequence with him in a kitchen, and it is jaw-droppingly beautiful. The visuals in the scene are gorgeous, the music is perfect, and it's both hilarious and stunning. The way that Quicksilver's super speed effect has been done is amazing. Some people thought the costume looked goofy, but I think it works perfectly well considering the time period and the personality of the character. I've been a big fan of Evan Peters for a while, and he is great in the role, he is very entertaining and has a great screen presence. I never thought I'd be saying this, but I doubt Marvel will be able to produce a better Quicksilver in 'Avengers: Age Of Ultron' than the one that's on display here.But you know what I think all this great quality comes down to? Bryan Singer. I'm pretty sure Bryan Singer is just the perfect X-Men director. Even though up until now I thought 'X-Men: First Class' was the best of the X-Men franchise, it didn't really feel like the X-Men in the way that 'X-Men' and 'X2′ did. 'Days Of Future Past' nails that X-Men dynamic while still being an exceptionally good movie. Part of that X-Men dynamic comes from John Ottman's amazing score, as it's so good to finally hear his X-Men theme again.The action scenes are incredible, especially the opening one which uses some of the new mutant powers phenomenally, especially Blink's. The movie is very well paced, I never grew bored and I didn't want it to end.'Days Of Future Past' also surprisingly has a lot of very funny humour in it, but it's not humour that's just forced in for the sake of it, it all feel natural and within the confines of these characters. This film nails the comic book movie aspect; it has a plot which is clearly very serious yet it is still silly enough to remain a comic book film, unlike movies like 'Man Of Steel' and 'The Dark Knight' which go so dark that they just completely ditch the comic book aspect. There are also a few nice references that fans of the comics will get, which is just a small example of the great fan service this movie does for readers of the 'X-Men' comics.'Days Of Future Past' made me remember why I was such a big X-Men fan. It rekindled my love for the characters and story lines, and like I said above, it's one of the best comic book movies ever made.
__label__10 Days of Future Past continues the work of X2 as genre-defining. I have to classify it as a work of art/comic book pulp fiction. The characters, effects, and story are outstanding. Everything in this movie is exceedingly better in the sequel then even the first two films and First Class. Like X2, the acting is superb and the dialogue is rich. Every character feels believable. No cartoonish villains, every side of the issue is presented by people who believe they are the ones who are in the right and the underlying message of tolerance and bigotry only add to the depth of this film. What's better then its predecessor X3 in every way. It restores the sense of epic adventure and grand-scale storytelling that's been absent from far too many of most alleged blockbusters.This film is far more sophisticated and has a better story than any X-Men movie to date. Here, the characters previously introduced but under used are utilized in a comprehensive and cohesive manner, and the newly introduced characters are blended in seamlessly with the story. The music is very good as is the special effects. The budget clearly hit the screen fully and there are truly some amazing sequences to behold. The cast-selection is still perfect.Overall, this is one of the best genre films of all-time.
__label__10 OMG!!! This movie cannot be simply described in words. If you loved X men first class then this movie is a treat for you. This is a movie even non-x men fans will enjoy. Go see this movie guys. Your mind will be blown. I've already seen this movie and looking forward to see it again. Hugh Jackman does the best wolverine ever. He became the wolverine i wanted to see on screen for ages. The interesting chemistry between James McAvoy and Michael Fassbender is more enjoyable than ever. But jennifer lawrence and Evan Peters at Quicksilver steal the movie. Quicksilver may not look so cool but he is the coolest guy in the whole movie. Believe me, this movie is worth your bucks. Moreover there are a bunch of new x men characters introduced in the movie which make it more enjoyable.Bryan Singer has done complete justice to this movie. And there is one scene just halfway through the movie which is worth watching fifty times. I am thoroughly excited to see the next entry entry in series which is being called Apocalypse.The only shortcoming in the movie is the runtime which feels a little less being only 130 mins. Rest of the movie is a jigsaw which fits together in a wondrous puzzle.So you must go to see this movie. Every element is in a balanced form. Even the soundtrack is fitting. Happy watching !!!!
__label__10 Right now, I'm still trying really hard to find out one bad thing from the X-Men movie I've just seen: The characters maybe ? No: every single character is perfectly represented,interpreted (in particularly with a stunning James McAvoy and an impressive Michael Fassbender) and useful to the story. Maybe the plot then ? No: you'll get easily into it, because it is very well written for the screen, meaning you will be transported as Bryan Singer seems to know perfectly how to put in place a very cinematic puzzle. Emotions ? You will get some, as long as you loved the original X-Men characters. The soundtrack ? It is spotless and superbly fitting. Visual Effects ? Always there when we want them to be, and not when it is unnecessary. Action scenes ? You'll be amazed, thrilled and captivated when you will realize that every single scene has a purpose, whether it has some action or simple emotions and character's development.All these qualities put together are forming a very classical but excellent & accomplished movie, completed by a skilled sense of cinematic continuity that we didn't have since Singer left the franchise (at least until X-Men First Class). In other words, you should not be afraid to see this movie, because if you don't want to be disappointed, I can tell : you won't be. But is the future of this X-Men movie truly set ? This is something you'll have to figure out by yourselves, and this until the very end of the credits...
__label__10 Easily the best X Men film yet with a storyline that requires you to think whilst marvelling at the amazing special effects and action scenes taking place before your eyes. James McAvoy puts in a superb performance as an embittered Professor X and there are great performances from Hugh Jackman and Michael Fassbender in their respective roles as Wolverine and Magneto but the person everyone is going to be talking about is a new mutant to the series called Quicksilver played superbly with the right amount of arrogance and likability by Evan Peters. His huge action scene where he is required to rescue an imprisoned Magneto from a heavily guarded Pentagon is an absolute delight and already a contender of most amazing action scene of the year and I cant see anything beating it. Trust me - you will want to watch this scene again and again as there is so much to marvel at. Pity that Quicksilver is absent after this as the film does sorely miss the character. Hoping to see more of him in the future. The film does have a great climax though featuring a highly inventive use of a football stadium and a post credits scene with a hint of what to expect in the next movie. All in all a great movie that is going to delight and entertain young and old alike.
__label__10 Putting aside my being a die-hard Marvel fan and summoning my critical perception to the film, I say this with most sincerity, X-Men: Days of Future Past is the best film of X-Men franchise yet, and for that matter one of cinematic history's best of the superhero genre, easily lining itself to other superhero films' gems like The Dark Knight and the Avengers. I would like to begin by saying that Bryan Singer is a miracle worker (making the "impossible" filmable), making X-Men DOFP one of his finest. Singer carefully crafted every single scene with such awe and sincerity that the word perfection isn't enough to describe it. May it be a series of CGI effects, unique action extravaganzas, and powerful, moving emotional scenes, Singer never failed to blend the elements of a superhero film with human drama. His powerful direction certainly brought the best in each of the cast and unlocked their hidden potentials. For the storyline, I would like to commend the writers for their excellent writing that never failed to amuse and captivate the audience with powerful storytelling while maintaining logic and perceiving bigger messages to society and human faults. (BTW I'm not a huge comic book reader so I don't have any idea what X-Men DOFP would be about) Anyways, the writers did an excellent job in connecting the dots from the past X- Men films (though it's not necessary to watch them all to fully understand the film). Now for the stellar cast: I think the whole cast (both new and recurring) did their best to fully portray the characters they're embodying. First, kudos both to Patrick Stewart and Ian McKellan, who both are the embodiment of X-Men themselves; even though their pretty much in the same place the whole film, their performance proved to be timeless without severing emotional vulnerability and the bond of a strong true friendship. Hugh Jackman's performance in the film could be argued as his best portrayal of Wolverine yet. What can we say? He's Hugh Jackman. James McAvoy and Michael Fassbender's characters have evolved so much from the first film, and the two of them displayed performance that made X-Men DOFP superior to other X-Men films. Their portrayals held such pain and confusion from their damaged relationship that made them human despite their superhuman distinctions. Of course there's the ever-astonishing Jennifer Lawrence whose acting prowess is unmatched. Lawrence's Mystique is one of the best portrayal of a troubled character in a superhero film, exploiting mixed feelings with pure acting that made Mystique and Jennifer Lawrence a very crucial piece to the film's success. And for the newcomer Peter Dinklage of Game of Thrones, portrayed a villain with no actual superpowers but made the future as it was in the beginning of the film. His role as Bolivar Trask is an interesting character fighting for survival with judgment clouded by society's erroneous perception. The actors in the supporting roles also did very well. Ellen Page got the spotlight she deserved with her vulnerable yet enduring portrayal of Kitty Pride, who's the bread-and-butter character of the film. Shawn Ashmore has grown so much since his first X-Men film, and that maturity is very much shown in his strong portrayal of Iceman. Halle Berry, while she has a much smaller role in the film, steals the spotlight every second she appeared on screen. The appearance of Bill Stryker (Josh Helman) is of course appreciated as it gives us a brief window to Wolverine's character and proves the quantum theory about time which is an important aspect to the storyline. Smaller roles which are included for filling the shoes of other characters showed so much potential that it's too disappointing they didn't got a chance to develop throughout the film: Colossus (who's supposed to be Kitty Pride's couple, though I don't think that's necessary for now), Sunspot, Bishop, Warpath, Blink (instantly my new favorite character) and Havok from the past. By the way, special mention to Evan Peters and his portrayal of Quicksilver for being too awesome. I think it's very obvious that he would appear not only in future X-Men films but also in other Marvel films (such as Avengers 2) because he's such an iconic character. As expected, the cameo appearances by James Marsden and Famke Janssen as Cyclops and Phoenix set us for the next X-Men film, which I think is great. So that's pretty much my though for X-Men: Days of Future Past (not including the visual effects, sound, costume design etc.). This is a must-see film and it is sure to entrance die-hard Marvel fans and non-fan viewers alike.
__label__10 In the near future, mutants and ordinary humans alike are under attack and losing the battle. So our heroes from former installments try to prevent this war by sending Wolverine (Hugh Jackman) back to the past so he can fix the mess a certain blue lady (Jennifer Lawrence) is creating. In the year 1973, Wolverine meets young and depressed Charles Xavier (James McAvoy) and Erik Lehnsherr (Michael Fassbender) again. Will he succeed in uniting the two mutant geniuses and change everything?That said, "X-Men: Days of Future Past" is a thrilling experience. The chemistry between James McAvoy and Michael Fassbender is amazing, as are their performances. Again. Nicholas Hoult does a fantastic job as Hank. Hugh Jackman is Wolverine, meaning he IS THE Wolverine. "Game of Thrones" star Peter Dinklage does a great job as Dr. Trask. And yes, I love Jennifer Lawrence as Raven. Plus, we see Ellen Page and Omar Sy, and Patrick Stewart and Ian McKellen are great as ever. I like the performances and the acting in general. There are quite some emotional scenes. Needless to say that James McAvoy pulls them off so well it almost hurts."X-Men: Days of Future Past" promises fun as well. Action sequences are spiced with nice effects and flavored with some humor. Evan Peters who plays Quicksilver is amazing in his role and gives you something to watch in amazing 3D.Last but not least, the cinematography is fantastic. Yes, I have seen even better results, but scenes, cuts, and effects fit the movie. 3D looks and feels great.Overall, I rate it as one of the best X-Men movies so far. Although I am aware of some logical gaps (considering the original X-Men movie time line), I accept "X-Men: Days of Future Past" as a more or less alternate canon time line. By doing so, it is easy to enjoy these two hours full of mutants, their powers, and their fears.
__label__10 This is what the comic book film genre was supposed to be. Fast-paced, intense, character-driven - all of that, but with HEART. What a work of art, Marvel. Please don't take us for granted like you did in the early 2000's. Keep it true. Keep it fun. That's all you have to do. And you did it here. THANK YOU. And how can you not love the easter eggs everywhere in these films. Wonderful hat-tips to the comics.But that cast....this series set the bar wonderfully high for subsequent Marvel movies. Michael Fassbender & James McAvoy might be the greatest actors in a Marvel film. Good GOD. Perfect ambassadors for the X-Men series for years to come. And uh......can we see Deadpool done right? :) Beggars & choosers, I know! PEACE!
__label__10 The X-Men send wolverine to the past in a desperate effort to change history and prevent an event that results in doom for both humans and mutants. To me it's a very welcome return to Bryan Singer as X-Men I and II were very good! He really captured the essence of the X-Men comic books which was as it's heart the mutant and humans struggle, politics and emotions of that. Bryan Singer returned this time, taking what Matthew Vaughn brought us with X-Men: First Class and linked the two world together in a perfectly satisfying and epic new film. This exciting summer blockbuster will satisfy fans of the series. Singer is clearly comfortable in this world once again bringing humour to it as well as incredible action. It's in fact great to see the X-Men fight together in a unique and interesting way. Plus, he exceeded people expectations (unfortunately for him though, particularly in this world where expectations are always higher), pleased, surprised and shocked them as well with X-Men I at a time when there were no genre. X-Men II, I think, for many people is a favourite of the entire series. He managed to elevate that again with Days of Future Past. This film is not only an X-Men movie but it's also a time travel movie. Which can go both way. It gives the writers and director the chance to do something that we're not expecting as they could literally pull anything out of the bag. This film might be the best X-Men movie we've ever had as Singer fixed all the mistakes made since his departure with X-Men III and Origins. It's great! However, people tend to smash those big blockbusters because of all the special effects and kids related things but this movie has on display incredible acting talent, the cast is absolutely incredible, such as Patrick Stewart and Ian McKellen. Plus, the big stands out are Michael Fassbender and especially James McAvoy who is amazing as Professor X in far more difficult times. They have such a fantastic chemistry, we can feel the endless amount of back stories in place within those characters. Yes, there are many characters in this film which is pretty easy to mess up with. We've seen that recently, for instance in The Amazing Spider-Man 2 which handled his characters terribly. But here, every single one of these characters having really awesome bad ass fight scenes and cool comic book moments, have emotional arcs as well. Undeniably the emotional core of the movie is intact from the beginning. One of the best sequences involved Evan Peters as Quicksilver, trust me as I say that he steels every moments he's on the screen. Every scenes he's in it, not a whole bunch, but still every scene is PERFECT. When he's demonstrating his powers, is actually one of the best scene I have ever seen in a comic book film in my (short) entire life. Finally, only a couple of minor issue including on the one hand little to much silly humour, but I have to admit that it's part of the series. Sometimes humour was extremely clever throughout the movie, characters did jokes and it works. On the other hand there were to little time spent on worthy character such as Dr. Bolivar Trask. Indeed, Peter Dinklage is an amazing actor but he didn't really strike the fear and intensity that I was hoping from him, as we didn't really know what are his motivations to exterminate mutants by creating the Sentinel. The character of Bishop also disappointed me as he doesn't look like the comics in any way. X-Men: Days of Future Past represents a great conclusion as well as a fresh beginning for the next films to come. Overall, even if you're not an X-Men fan despite just the fantasy and spectacle, the story is so deeply human and moving that I feel like everyone has to relate to this franchise. As you could tell by now I'm a huge fan of Marvel universe. I loved X-Men DOFP and of course I'm really looking forward to Apocalypse, more than ever before!
__label__10 I say deceptive because I hadn't heard of this film and from the really dodgy CG in the intro story I thought it was perhaps a low budget indie film. It was unclear if the clumsy graphics were designed to be stylised imaginings of the story book idea at first and I nearly gave up on it.Glad I did not as it turned out to be a genuinely good film. I probably would have given it eight out of ten but honestly the last thirty seconds of the film earned another two stars. Very good end to the story and quite creative... even if it does raise a question about airplanes and satellites.Perhaps this is why the UK never invested heavily in a space program...
__label__10 I really enjoyed the movie. I went into it without many expectations as I was taking my 3 sons to see it (ages 5 to 11). I thought it would be a kid's type of movie yet I found myself captivated by the story.It felt very much like Avatar in my opinion. The theater we went to didn't have the special glasses that Avatar did so the quality wasn't as good but the story was just as enjoyable.While Jack and the Princess acted well, I frankly did not think that neither of them looked good enough. It always makes it tough for me to watch a princess that is frankly not pretty.In my opinion the movie is worth the cost of watching in the theater in 3D. Exercise your judgment whether a child under 10 years old can handle something that is a little scary. Humans do get eaten up by these giants which is not for the faint of heart.
__label__10 "Jack the Giant Slayer" was, well, a rollicking adventure with fun medieval overtones. Don't expect it rigidly to adhere to the most up-to-date scholarship on quotidian life in the Middle Ages. Neither expect it rigidly to reflect any plot elements--indeed, any archetypal motifs--that one might encounter in, say, "Jack the Giant Killer," because this movie ISN'T "Jack the Giant Killer." "Jack the Giant Slayer" is a fun story about a poor but noble-hearted farm boy who--while hosting the princess pursuant to a series of misadventures--accidentally wets magic beans that grow into a beanstalk that lifts his shack miles in the air, landing in Gantua, a continent in the clouds populated by giants who can hold you in their very hand. An evil nobleman, who pursues Jack and the princess, possesses a magical stone crown that can dominate the giants' wills. Trying to trick Jack and other members of his party, the evil courtier is killed, but the giants wet their own beans and soon land in the realm of men. There's a breathtaking battle scene where the giants assault the castle walls with every conceivable weapon while their two-headed king, Fallon, individually pursues the princess and Jack. At the end, Jack possesses the stone crown; the giants enjoy perpetual friendship with mankind; and the princess, abolishing an ancient law forbidding it, marries her "farm boy prince" and lives happily ever after.There are some repetitive and predictable plot elements and a few weakly delineated characters, but overall the screenplay is nearly breathtaking and keeps the action moving. Look for the scene where the giant chef attempts to prepare our friends inside stuffed pastry shells: it's hilarious.There will always be someone who complains that the CGI could have been better as far as this nit or that iota is concerned. That may or may not be true but did not, IMHO, detract from one's enjoyment of the picture. IT'S A STORY, not a Ph.D. dissertation on CGI realism!
__label__10 After seeing this film I was more than a little disgusted to see so many negative reviews. The main problem with this film I find is in the first 20-30 minutes, a common problem I spy in Luhrman films that should by no means define an entire film. Giving away nothing the film begins at a brisk and overly flamboyant pace but after a bit it hits what I like to call "Baz's golden point", slows to absolute perfection. That first half hour will leave more than a few shaking their heads, but power through it and you will find The Great Gatsby in all its glory. Luhrman stays as true to the source as he can and Dicaprio gives yet another glorious performance. If I'm going to be honest I think a lot of the negative reviews coming in are due to the "classic" status of the book, people want to act like the hours of school discussions should make this film less fanciful and serious 100 percent of the time. Thing is we have that version twice over in the 1974 & 2000 adaption. Gatsby 2013 is beautiful, over the top, heart wrenching, and thoroughly enjoyable flick that I shall always highly recommend.
__label__10 I've now watched The Great Gatsby a total of three (3) times, one in 3D. Though there are plenty of harsh critic reviews for this film, an yes I said film and not movie, is because they are too focused on the length of the film and the complex story line and not understanding fully the range of the time period set.The Great Gatsby is a touching tale of an interloper, person on the outside looking in from the perspective of a young coming yuppie. Truth be told it is another star crossed lovers tale of missed chance and opportunity and the lengths one goes to rewrite the past and mend the wounds felt for years. Like all tragedies, this film does no better in having hopes up. Staying true to the book, the characters lives all end tragic one way or another. The fond and curiousness felt by the main narrator Nick for the infamous Gatsby fuels the story along, intertwining the 'Golden Girl' Daisy; a minx'd bombshell villianized by her brut 'polo' playing husband, the ever unfaithful and racists Tom. Upon meeting Gatsby, Nick is enthralled by the complexities of Gatsby's demeanor and back story as well as enjoying the ever entertaining side to the secretive bachelor. The plot to re-win Daisy's heart and fulfill the empty void in Gatsby's broken and tired soul didn't come easy. Along the way the other challenges were both infidelities and the accidental murder of a mistress. After all of this, Nick is still recovering pierces of the Gatsby puzzle and figuring out ways to make complete sense of all events take place when in the end some gaps are left unfilled.I enjoyed the intense performances by Leonardo Dicaprio and Tobey Maguire. Both playing cozily off one another and both gave superb vocal and facial workouts. I really liked the easiness of Carey Mulligan's character Daisy. She spoke eloquently enough to pull of the soft and rough tone of a 1920's wealthy east coast flapper gal. Joel Edgerton as Tom, what can I say? Born to play the role of a thick and broastic rich-mistress-having- know-it-all who can't stand to lose anything, not even a potential side sway with a beautiful actress. All in all I enjoyed the film production value. Also I am sad that the film waited so long to be produced and released, but a little happy because it gave enough time to include Lana Del Rey to the film soundtrack and score. I enjoyed the film despite the critics. All I can say is reread the book and watch the film again and tell me that Baz Luhrmann didn't try to make an emotionally driven artistic masterpiece with great actors and amazing focus shots. I give this film 10/10, but that is my own opinion based on many different category factors.I hope you enjoyed this review. Thank You.
__label__10 As a Prince of Persia fan i enjoyed this movie. The Park our scenes were stunning. There is a lot of Action in this movie which is in my view a good decision. If you are looking for a some good Swords battles you will enjoy this Movie. the different Assassins characters were also a interesting part of this Movie. I have to mention that Disney done a great job with the atmosphere Music in this Movie. I think Disney did a great job with this movie,at first i was very skeptical with Disney producing it. But with Pirates of the Caribbean and Prince of Persia I'm very satisfied with Disney's quality as a big blockbuster Movie Producer. Overall it was a Good Movie, i will buy the Blue ray version of it.
__label__10 Well having played all the games I can honestly say I didn't know what to think when I found out that Jake gyellenhaal would be playing dasdan in the film. Well as always Jake impressed me at his fullest and the film was a fantastic piece of work. I expected it to be once I knew Jerry bruckhiemer was the producer and once again he impressed me. The visual effects team on the film deserves to be credited due to there brilliant work throughout the entire movie. The last effect sold the work of the effects team to me as outstanding. I also really like the way the director chose to open and close the film with the same shot and subtitles. After the film is done you really understand why the director did that. I really hope they follow this great film up with an equally great sequel and i don't think I will be disappointed.
__label__10 Prince of Persia : Sands of Time Movie is awesome, it has good effects , realistic sound effects , lots of action. Ma favorite effect is when he uses the Dagger of Time , it looks really cool and amazing . The good thing about this movie is,that the story has not been copied exactly from the GAME...it has its own ending , a unique one , nice comedy here and there . I really love this movie and I cant wait for the sequel ...hope so there is one (I have a doubt because the ending in this movie is completely different from the game.)Guys just because this movie is based on the game , that doesn't mean everything in the movie needs to be exact just like in the game , this movie is so much better than the iron man 2 movie Please guys rate this movie better , give it a rating that it deserves.LOVE THE MOVIE , you guys should definitely watch it in the theaters , that is how you will get the full effect and fun of the movie.
__label__10 For the first time in many, many years with this movie I was taken away from the problems in my life and went to a place where those things didn't register anymore. It was almost magical. I had to keep reminding myself about the bad things in real life, but then a new robot vs monster battle happened and all the sudden that didn't matter any more. Total escapism done with excellent design attention and detail. Thank you GDT. You have to be an artist and a science fiction geek to appreciate this. I came out of the movie and realized all my problems were still there but I was also hearing the theme music in my head. Got the DVD now and I escape that way. Channel your inner six year old, lean back and enjoy.
__label__10 KABLAM, A 10/10 Pretty much one of the best movies out this year.I'm sorry, but anybody who didn't enjoy this movie because of its shamelessly cheesy storyline and acting is a gigantic tool-bag and that's all there is to it. I have absolutely no clue WHY people were expecting the next God Father, or Citizen Kane from a movie where giant monsters show up and the first thing the military does is build EQUALLY GIANT ROBOTS to punch them in the face. Cut that out, folks. Don't go into the movie WANTING to hate it. Give it a chance and enjoy the colorful and zany adventure.JACKSON BROWNE OUT
__label__10 This movie is one of the best I have seen in a long time. Everything I can think of is incredible in this movie. From the incredible CGI effects to even the awesome soundtrack this movie does no wrong. The only negative thing about the movie is the length, but with the amount of information and depth they put into the movie, one is amazed by how short the movie is compared to what it could be. Not once did I look at my watch and think "When will this be over?", like I do with most movies over 2 hours long. The fight scenes are very well done in this movie. You expect a fight scene between a 250 foot robot and a 300 foot monster to be cheesy and in your face but they aren't. All of the technology is explained very well and the camera angles are ones that allow you to see everything going on. I highly recommend that everyone on this site go see this movie now. Between the incredible visuals and the intense soundtrack you will almost be wishing this plot was real so you can hop in a Jaeger and kick some Kaiju ass.
__label__10 Despite the negative reviews by critics, this film is packed with classic Michael Bay and Transformers action. From start to finish a great movie, it has great chemistry between the characters and the robots, with an awesome storyline that really makes you think. There are several minor blips and mistakes I noticed, but they do not take away from movie at all. I would say it is slightly better than the first film and a lot better than the second one. Like Michael Bay said the film could go bigger than the second so bringing it back into a small arena was an added bonus. the 3D was also a nice addition to the movie added to the immersing experience. Nonetheless I am a fan of the trilogy and plan on seeing it again. I recommend anyone who is a fan of explosions, non stop action, and comedy to see this film, maybe even twice!!!
__label__10 Ever since I heard about the possible release of new Indiana Jones film I was bursting with excitement and skepticism. THe original trilogy are some of my favorite movies of all time, and I still hold an opinion that Raiders of the Lost ARk is the best action picture of all time. However I was skeptical about how a new film would be pulled off. It wasn't Indy's age that worried me seeing as I have a very high respect for Harrison Ford, but I was worried about how George Lucas and Steven Spielberg might go about this new film. My worries were unfounded.The first thing people need to realize about the Kingdom of the Crystal SKull and all the Indiana Jones films is that they are and always will be period films. The idea for Indiana Jones was originally based upon 1930's serials, and the first 3 did good for that time period. However, Lucas and Spielberg both realized that due to Harrisons advancing age that the film needed to be place further into the future. (the 1950's) However, adventure serials weren't part of the film mainstream at the time. And Sci-fi films were. This is why Kingdom of the Crystal Skull truly ascends. The filmmakers made a B movie sci-fi fitting of the period, but also kept its original Indy flair. All the requirements for a good indy movie are kept. (the action pieces, the battles between Indy and a world power be it Russians or Nazis, the creatures, and the encounters with super natural.) Those who find the alien aspect of this film to be out of place only need to look at Lucas's and Spielberg's reasoning. (see above) And if they find the story of the aliens unrealistic then they honestly need to rewatch the original movies seeing as their is nothing any more unreal in this film then there were in the previous films. 10/10 Easily one of the best Indy films.
__label__10 ***WARNING: CONTAINS SPOILERS*** Don't believe all the bad reviews. People have sticks up their asses.The only mistake Pixar made was releasing this 5 months or so after Inside Out. This movie pales in comparison. That being said, it's a good movie. My 4 year old loves it. It's not necessarily of the same caliber as the other Pixar movies (except Cars 2; you are all forgetting that one. It is by far the worst one.)It's definitely dark and has some pretty adult elements, but it's not something a kid can't handle. It's not traumatic, by any means. Give your kids some credit. The whole theme of the movie is conquering fear, so it might do your kid some good to watch it. And stop saying it's a bad carbon copy of The Lion King just because the dad dies. How many times has that happened in other Disney movies? Stop it.I'll just say watch it and see for yourself. No, it's not as good as Inside Out, but it's a solid movie, and it stands on its own. It's worth watching.
__label__10 It's pretty amazing that so many people seem to want to trash this movie. I watched this with my 2 daughters and my 10 year old said it was the best movie she's ever seen. She identified with Arlo's anxiety and insecurity as she also feels this way sometimes. His journey in dealing with these issues by facing his fears and, even if sheepishly at first, challenging them one by one helped her to understand herself. It allowed her to see that others struggle and can overcome these struggles in a way she hadn't seen before... up close and personal. As a child and adolescent therapist in practice for over 16 years, I can definitively tell you that any movie that prompts a child to look into themselves... to challenge their fears... and ends with them hugging you tightly, is a true marvel to behold. It's the core of the emotional artistry that movies are meant to be. Having an emotional connection to a movie or any work of art for that matter, will always win out over special effects and beautiful backdrops. It's the reason Star Wars: A New Hope was brilliant and The Phantom Menace sucked. Anyone have any kind of emotional connection to The Phantom Menace these days?
__label__10 I'm in my twenties and to be honest, I still enjoy watching Pixar films with my family. There's just something so genuine and beautiful about their movies, not to mention the endless amount of lessons one can learn.When I initially read the reviews about "The Good Dinosaur", they were all so bad. It didn't stop me from watching though and I do not regret that decision. This has got to be one of the most heartwarming Pixar films I've ever seen and it tugged at my heartstrings. I was crying throughout the movie especially towards the end. The thing about being an adult, we tend to overthink something so simple. The plot isn't something grand. It's not funny. It's cute. If you're looking for a film like the classic Pixar favorite "Toy Story", forget about watching this. It's a really simple storyline that focuses mainly on teaching the importance of family, dealing with fears and overcoming them as well as finding oneself or making your mark in this world. View "The Good Dinosaur" with an open mind and just be ready to enjoy the movie without reading too much between the lines. The good thing about Pixar films is that they remind you how wonderful it is to still be a kid at heart. This movie is no exception. In fact, I think this joins the ranks of "Finding Nemo","UP", and "Inside Out". Everyone has a right to their own opinion, but I can't help but wonder why majority just plain dislike this movie. If you're on the fence after reading one too many 1-star reviews, I say go ahead and still watch it. Judge for yourself. Be pure hearted like a kid and try to embrace the beautiful lessons of the film. Allow it to engulf you and touch you. If you have a kid/kids, this would be one of those perfect films to have a hearty conversation with afterwards. It's very inspiring, really. Give "The Good Dinosaur" a try. Oh and one more thing, don't be afraid to cry while watching this. I've seen this twice and still end up a mess every time.
__label__10 I hadn't seen this movie before buying it. But, we have liked all the other movies by Pixar, so it seemed like a sure thing. I read the reviews on IMDb and found only one good review in around fifty. I figured we had bought a "lemon". After watching the film my thoughts were basically as follows: Have none of you ever seen The Land Before Time? This sure seems like this generations LBT. So many people talked about how it scared their kid. Good! Now go home and TALK ABOUT IT! Kids should know that life isn't going to be peaches and cream all the time, and that sometimes we have to deal with sad hard things. Also, what is wrong with every kids movie not being filled with hilarious moments. Why is it so bad that this movie focuses on the hard knocks of life, but shows that life can be bearable and happy? I want my kids to learn the lessons taught here. I read reviews citing movies like Lion King and Finding Nemo saying how much better they were. Well if you watch this movie, it's basically the same thing, just different characters and less laugh out loud funny moments. I am not trying to be mean, but grow some balls people. I saw kids movies that scared me when I was a kid and you know what happened? NOTHING! I wasn't scarred for life. I didn't have to see a counselor. I just learned that things are sometimes scary, and I didn't watch those movies any more. Seriously people. Why does everything in life have to be so dang negative. Look for the good. This movie is filled with good messages for adults and for kids. Watch it, and if it bothers you, don't let your kids see it and don't buy it. It's that simple.
__label__10 I have never wrote a review for a movie before now, and I have written this because I am so annoyed with people's ignorance towards a good animated movie. I watched 'the good dinosaur' yesterday at the cinema, not knowing what to expect as I had not looked at any reviews and I had only watched a 30 second trailer...I entered the cinema with my mum and we were the only adults without children with us! So, before it started I was slightly sceptical, thinking that it was going to be very kiddish! Then the film started.. through most of the film, my mum and I were in tears! It is one of the most heartwarming, emotional, animated film I have watched and it really touched my heart, some of the scenes in the film were so brilliantly thought out to show real messages! There was one scene where I was in floods of tears, the scene dealt with a serious theme, but did it so brilliantly! (you'll know what I mean if you watch it!) I even came out of the cinema with my eyes still watering!All I am saying is do not listen to the bad reviews. Most of them will be expecting something complex but, this film is really not about that! This film is inspiring! Especially for children! It is a simple film, but the subtle messages, such as overcoming your fears, the importance of family, and making your mark were heartwarming, and make you think, a lot! And for those reviews that said the film scared their child? Well, I was in a cinema full of children ageing from 2-10, and throughout the film they were asking questions, laughing, and full of excitement! This film was very funny, but emotional at the right times, with a great plot that really makes you think! I believe this film was maybe not as good as, but came close to other Pixar films such as up and toy story. Yes, I know that these films have imaginative, classic plots, but this film teaches you a lot, and also makes you feel for the characters! So go ahead and watch! But don't listen to the bad reviews! Make up your own mind!
__label__10 We took our 4.5 yr old to see this movie and we all loved it. The story line takes you through all your emotions from tears to laughing. Adorable. Even my husband kept saying "wow that was a great movie!". The family dynamics portrayed in the film were great. The struggle that a child, that maybe isn't as successful as their siblings, goes through is perfect. The friendship with a creature different from oneself is such a valuable message. The struggles to fit within a family and outside of a family are real. This movie highlights all of it in a sweet and sometimes harsh manner, which is just like life. Overall worthy of a 10.
__label__10 The Good Dinosaur is beautiful movie with kind characters, a wonderful story about friendship and family and the artwork is just amazing. Of course there are evil characters too- it's about dinosaurs, so that seems obvious. Compared to other computer animation movies there are only a few action scenes, instead there are beautiful generated landscapes. And about tragedy: it's as "disturbing" as "Lion King" and "Bambi". We really enjoyed The Good Dinosaur every minute! Maybe not the best Pixar Movie out there but with the Heart at the right Place. Nice twist to the Boy and his Dogs Movies. This sentence is for the sole purpose to reach the 10 Lines ...
__label__10 What a fantastic film that has gotten such a terrible backlash.Reasons for backlash:1)People hate princess films and according to them it is the same as the others. Well anyone with an iota of intelligence will tell you that each princess film has a different story, a different message and a different but ever so present soul. We live in a society where two characters who have the same hair color and different faces and different personalities are viewed by the masses of people to be identical and the same person because people are superficial and so this film has a princess and that one SINGLE fact makes the film the SAME as all other princess films. Oh how intelligence has plummeted.2) This is story about tradition and myth. That is part of the core of the tale. We live in a society with no tradition or real culture other than pop culture. So obviously the turmoil of the leads will go over the heads of the masses. I have friends who have been in situations where they were forced to marry someone and refusal to do so would have ghastly consequences for their families. It is real and heart breaking. In our society however people sleep with a hundred people before and even after marriage and can marry and divorce as they please without giving a rat's ass for their families who could suffer the brunt of their decisions. We live in a selfish society so obviously putting ourselves in the shoes of or even imagining what Merida and her mother go through and their reasons will not register with millions. No one will understand how breaking tradition could have disastrous consequences. They have no idea how in other countries how tradition and culture is a backbone of societies other than ours. people cannot in our society put themselves into the shoes of others as we are too selfish. And that is the truth.3) This story has legends and stories, myths, tales that guide our heroines. In a society without stories that date thousands of years, cautionary tales and tales of truths to guide us, i doubt the impact of that will reach the minds of the public. Though abroad many and i mean many nations have tales, legends that date back thousands of years before our country received its name. These tales would guide people and be sources of moral and brainy wisdom for the children and adults. So obviously that went over everyone's heads. People in other countries hundreds upon hundreds of years ago used these legends and myths, these tales, to grow as a people.And to this day people in such countries still tell these tales to their kids as a moral message, teaching and preventing history from occurring.4) Apparently it has no humor and people want humor over substance. I mean anyone seen The Hangover trilogy. Well people loved it as it shows what society is all about and that is public mindset.5) It is about a mother-daughter story, it has moral messages and a lot of deep meaning. Apparently that means it is 'cliché'. What an overused word by the pseudo intellectual pretentious idiots who lack profound sense and think substance and sweetness is cliché just because they are sick douches. Half the time they don't even know what it means. I mean these days the word cheesy is used to describe anything with substance, sweetness, kindness, soul and love. And so something with profound wisdom and sheer lovely heart is considered cheesy while on the other hand depraved psycho disgusting buffoonery is considered amazing. Oh how far moral and substance has fallen in this society and how pretentious pseudo-intellect has taken over. Wisdom and profound thought and substance is dead or according to the depraved superficial and supposedly know it all generation 'cheesy'. Our society is so egoistic and full of itself that it cannot be educated or told great messages since according to them, they know everything and no one should dare question that by putting a real message in a movie. Even if these people know nothing they still must be considered to be the greatest and smartest. People hate their families or have been so poorly raised and some in favor of pets or vice versa where pets are considered better family than people so obviously their hate for the real meaning of life and family and love which they look down upon is 'cheesy' and 'cliche'. Well that is society for you and i hope that great movies with substance don't get the boot in favor of what such people want.
__label__10 Nine hundred and sixty-six days into its five-year voyage, the USS Enterprise arrives at Starbase Yorktown, a massive "snowglobe"-like station with its own internal atmosphere and cityscape, to replenish dwindling supplies while the crew takes shore leave. Struggling to find continued meaning in their mission, Captain James Kirk has applied for a promotion to Vice Admiral of Yorktown, and plans to name Spock as the new captain of the Enterprise. Meanwhile, Hikaru Sulu reunites with his husband and daughter, Spock and Nyota Uhura have amicably ended their relationship, and Montgomery Scott works to keep the ship operational. Spock also receives word from New Vulcan that Ambassador Spock, his elder counterpart from the original time-line, has passed away.An escape pod drifts out of a nearby nebula. The survivor, Kalara, claims her ship is stranded on Altamid, a planet in the nebula, and the Enterprise is dispatched on a rescue mission. The rescue turns into an ambush when the Enterprise is overwhelmed by a massive swarm of ships and is badly damaged. The swarm's alien commander, Krall, boards the ship searching for an alien artifact that Kirk had obtained on a recent mission. The swarm rips apart the Enterprise, and the saucer section crashes to the planet as the crew abandons ship in escape pods.On the planet's surface, Sulu, Uhura and other surviving crew are captured by Krall. Kirk and navigator Pavel Chekov, accompanied by Kalara, find the crashed saucer section. Kalara is discovered to be Krall's ally when she attempts to retrieve the artifact for him. To escape Krall's crew, Kirk activates the still-functional boosters, causing the saucer to lurch forward and crush Kalara. Meanwhile, a seriously wounded Spock and Dr. Leonard McCoy search for the other survivors. Spock tells McCoy of Ambassador Spock's death and that he intends to leave Starfleet to continue his counterpart's work on New Vulcan. Meanwhile, Scotty is rescued by Jaylah, a scavenger who previously escaped Krall's encampment. She takes him to her makeshift home, the wreck of the USS Franklin, an early-generation Starfleet vessel that went missing over a hundred years ago. With Scotty's help, the ship is repaired, and Scotty, Kirk and Chekov, and McCoy and Spock, reunite using the ship as a base. The group plans to raid Krall's camp to rescue the crew and transport them to the Franklin then escape the planet. Meanwhile, Krall coerces a member of Kirk's crew to hand over the artifact that she had kept hidden for Kirk. Krall reveals the artifact is the missing half of an ancient bio-weapon, created by the planet's original inhabitants, that can disintegrate a humanoid life form in seconds. With the device now complete, Krall intends to attack Yorktown and kill its inhabitants, and, using its advanced technology, go on to attack the Federation.Kirk and the others free the crew as Krall launches from the planet with the bio-weapon, leading his fleet to Yorktown. The Enterprise crew pursues Krall in the Franklin. Scotty transports Spock and McCoy into one of Krall's drone ships where they eject the crew. They discover how the drone vessels coordinate. Krall's communications is disrupted with VHF transmissions, causing mass confusion that results in the fleet's destruction. Krall and his three remaining officers crash in Yorktown. As Krall escapes into the city, Uhura and Kirk discover from the Franklin's logs that Krall is actually Balthazar Edison, the captain of the Franklin. A human soldier from before the Federation's formation, Edison became disillusioned with his life and purpose after peace was established with humanity's enemies. When he and his crew were stranded in the nebula, he believed he had been deliberately cast aside. Having prolonged his life using the planet's alien technology that also physically deformed him, Krall/Edison now plans to destroy the Federation in revenge. Kirk pursues Krall into the Yorktown's ventilation system where Krall attempts to unleash the bio-weapon on the entire station. Kirk forces Krall into a portal, causing the weapon and Krall to be ejected into space, where the weapon consumes Krall. Spock and McCoy save Kirk before he is blown into space.Kirk is offered the promotion to Vice Admiral, but he opts to remain as a captain. Spock receives a box containing some of the personal effects of Ambassador Spock; reflecting on an included photograph of the aged crew of the Enterprise from the original time-line (circa Star Trek V: The Final Frontier), he chooses to remain in Starfleet and resumes his relationship with Uhura. Jaylah is accepted into Starfleet Academy on Scotty's recommendation. As the crew celebrates Kirk's birthday, they view the construction of their new ship, the USS Enterprise-A.
__label__10 I just returned from an advanced benefit screening of WALL*E, and I want to be careful not to spill too much regarding the movie. I had the added privilege of watching the film at Pixar, which in and of itself, was amazing.This picture is not a cartoon; it is a film. In fact, it even has the LOOK of film. One of my complaints of more recent 3-D/CG animated films (not from Pixar) is that they all seem to look the same... clean lines, crisp colors, and very "virtual", for lack of a better term. WALL*E transcends the typical look of CG animation, and has a true to life "grit." The creators at Pixar are true artists, and are indeed masters of their craft. Not only are they masters of the technology, they are masters of telling a story. WALL*E is no exception.The best way to describe the film is as a science fiction, comedy, dramatic love story. WALL*E, as a character, has dimension, personality, and heart... pretty impressive given that he is essentially a trash compactor. It is true that there is little dialogue in this feature, but I personally did not feel it detracted from the story at all.WALL*E is very much a different Pixar film from it's previous features. I will be curious to see how it is received by others, but in my opinion, I think Pixar has stayed true to itself, demonstrating a commitment to telling great stories and pushing the edge of technology to leave your jaw dropping! My most sincere compliments to Andrew Stanton, Jim Morris, John Lasseter, Ben Burtt, and all the creative forces at Pixar. Can't wait to see what the future brings...
__label__10 I'm starting to wonder if there is bad Disney/Pixar film, I mean, normally when we think of the combo, it does equal gold, we automatically know that everyone is going to love this movie, it's just a matter of comparison to the other animation films. I'm not just saying this because I had a good time when I was watching this, I'm very serious, this is my favorite Disney/Pixar film. It's completely worth the ticket price, this couldn't have been a more perfect film. Everything about WALL·E is just beyond great: the characters, the story, and the incredible animation. But the thing that I loved about WALL·E is it's message, I know that it does go a little over board with the "jog or get fat", "throw your garbage away", and the "we've become too dependent on machines" message, but I felt this was the most charming way to present it to the children who have to grow up in a world where they're going to have to worry about global warming, this may open their eyes a little.WALL·E is a robot that is left all alone on Planet Earth, Earth is now covered with garbage. The humans have left onto a corporate ship and are living their lives care free and well, thought free. WALL·E has been collecting little human pieces here and there and making them into his treasures, but the one thing he really wants is a friend. One day a ship lands with a female robot, Eve, who WALL·E just adores, but Eve is on a mission to find a plant to bring back onto the human ship to show that Earth is safe. But when the ship grabs Eve, WALL·E follows her and discovers the mutiny that is afoot on the ship. Everyone is overweight, can't walk, can't think for themselves, and let's all the robots do all the work for them. But WALL·E and Eve are on the mission to get them back to Earth and give it a little love.WALL·E is seriously the best movie I have seen this summer, I just adored this movie, it has great laughs, cute jokes and is entertaining for the whole family. Like I said before, when it's Disney/Pixar you just can't go wrong. WALL·E is one of their most lovable characters ever and was like the robot version of Charlie Chaplin, he brought great slap stick to the story. This movie delivers everything you can imagine and much more, not to mention a great message. I highly recommend this movie for everyone, it's just a very wonderful movie that anyone can enjoy. The animation, I can't believe how far we've come, but this was a beautifully made movie and couldn't have been better. I loved WALL·E, this is a movie that will bring you plenty of laughs for your summer.10/10
__label__10 We went to the San Francisco Film Institute's first public screening at their campus in Emeryville. Everyone's sworn to secrecy, but for a film with little dialog, it carries more of an emotional punch and has a richer story than any live-action movie this year. The tone and style of the film is completely different for Pixar, and Disney haven't tried to override the darker thematic elements at all, making the story surprisingly three-dimensional.This will end up being the animated film of the year and I had the same 'wow' feeling as after seeing Ratatouille. Considering that animated films have always played second-fiddle to live-action, and have been aimed at kids, it's ironic that once again Pixar produces a film that rivals any live action on every level. Bravo!
__label__10 Wall-E is the movie experience I've been looking for. I haven't seen a new film this richly entertaining, thrilling, touching and satisfying since Spider-Man 2. It is truly the finest Pixar or animated CGI film to date. I can discuss it without spoilers easily because it's one of those films, like 2001: A Space Odyssey, that exists more as a pure experience of the heart and the senses than as a collection of events that we're supposed to keep track of intellectually. Wall-E rises above that kind of unnecessary complication into the same kind of space occupied by dreams and the imagination.This film is beautifully animated, of course, to that magical Pixar point where even piles of what should be disgusting trash somehow look breathtakingly gorgeous and even fairly realistic-looking roaches look cute. But much more importantly, the heart, the emotion in this movie is unlike anything I've experienced at the cinema since Forrest Gump. Certainly my tear ducts have not welled up while watching a movie this much since then. I fell in like with the character of Wall-E when I saw the trailer. Watching the movie, I fell in love with him within about 2 minutes. Shortly after that, I fell in love with the idea of Wall-E falling in love.My previous favorite movie romance is Superman and Lois Lane in the original Superman films. The love story, or the love experience of Wall-E and Eve is perhaps the first I've seen since then that operates at and succeeds on that same level. These couples create an uncomplicated, innocent, simple, yet deep and powerful bond. They capture the experience of love at first sight, writ large. They possess an instant chemistry that tells you they belong together from the first time they see one another and makes you root for their relationship throughout the film. Wall-E and Eve share moments together of real cinematic beauty, true hilarity, frightening sadness, frustrating difficulty and delightful satisfaction. It's a testament to the level of genius at which the Pixar storytellers are operating that we feel every beat of this relationship resonate every step of the way despite the fact that the characters are robots that are not modeled off of humans and speak no more than a handful of words throughout the movie (this animated movie is refreshingly free of obvious "guest star" voices or any over-the-top stand-up comedians trying to upstage the movie).Just like in the first Superman films, once you care about the characters as individuals and care about their relationship, it's almost impossible for the rest of the movie not to work. You're hooked at hello. Wall-E adds all the expected complications to keep the would-be lovers from getting together most of the time. There is a truly great "McGuffin" that keeps the heroes and villains busy for quite a while (the item in question is something outwardly simple that ends up holding the key to something more important than anything in the world). The pacing during most of these adventures is as breakneck as anything out of the Star Wars films and the action is always staged with crystal clarity. There are several scenes of peril for Wall-E that are reminiscent of that oddly powerful sequence in Short Circuit 2 when Johnny 5 is almost killed. The filmmakers pull absolutely no punches when it comes to running your heart through the ringer over characters you care about. It probably helps that you can do a lot more physical damage to a robot character than you can to a human character while keeping a G rating and still getting the audience dramatically worried about their survival.Even on top of the action, the emotion, the visuals and the humor, Wall-E goes the extra mile into thought-provoking thematic territory. The film never hits you over the head with anything preachy and doesn't really even outright tell you what its opinions on the subjects it raises are. It also doesn't explicitly lay out explanations for everything that exists in Wall-E's world (there are no "talking killer" scenes and very little verbal exposition). I think the bits of ambiguity work here because they add to the sense of mystery, helplessness and alienation that most of the characters in the movie feel to some degree.There are human characters in this movie too, quite a few. I think that's necessary because if humans aren't shown in a robot world, you have to wonder what purpose were the robots designed to serve? That was a curiosity of the earlier CGI movie, Robots. Most of the humans in Wall-E aren't as developed as the robots, but I think that's because they exist more to represent the whole of humanity rather than particular individuals. We're asked to ponder the consequences of the choices they make as though the whole society was moving in that direction, not just one person. Wall-E and Eve are the heart of this movie but the humans are used to add some intellectual gravity for the audience to chew on.Other choices made in the movie might also leave room for debate, such as the integration of some live-action footage into the film. But because the movie as a whole is so audaciously stimulating and brilliantly satisfying, it's a plus that they left us with a few unresolved or unusual things to think about and question after getting off of the great emotional and visual roller-coaster experience. Wall-E truly serves up everything that I think an audience could want in a movie experience. It will be very easy for me to watch this one over and over again. It is a modern-day classic that I believe should earn a place in cinema history as the "2001" of CGI animated films, both of them movies of indisputable brilliance, unyielding imagination and unending entertainment.Footnote: The pre-movie short is an awesome, violent Looney Tunes/Roger Rabbit-esquire toon. It wants only to entertain and does.
__label__10 This truly is one beautiful, touching animated sci-fi film....I cannot stress this enough. It's a unique cinema experience that you must enjoy firsthand.The tale is set in the 22th century , Earth has become a lifeless wasteland full of garbage, that the human race evacuated nearly a millennium ago....Lifeless, that is with the two exceptions being the "artifical" life form "WALL-E" & his pet cockroach.WALL-E is a squat humble trash-compacting robot who while continuing to fulfill the duties he was programmed for ( even though it's pointless considering there are no more humans on the planet ) collects certain leftover nicknacks, novelty items and even old films that he can still play. He mentally stimulates himself and enjoys fragments of the culture that is now gone ( that of the human race ). Though, WALL-E has imprinted on his little cockroach & vice versa, the little robot longs for more companionship.He receives it in the form of a beautiful, sleek, defensive "fembot fatale" "EVE "....In their own little forms of robotic communication ( repeating each other's names in various connotations depending on moods ; "WAAAALLL-E," "EEEEEEEE-VAH!" ) and WALL-E's Chaplin-esquire clumsiness that amuses EVE, the pair imprint on each other and enjoy each other's company.Sadly, EVE has located a small plant and must return it to her mother ship and leave WALL-E forever...But WALLL-E hops aboard the ship in pursuit of his darling "EEEEEE-VAH".And yes this film has very little dialog, but guess what, IT DON'T NEED NO STINKIN' DIALIOUGUE!....The brilliance and beauty of the film is in the interactions and responses of the little robots : a great representation of what "artificial intelligence" really is and what it may actually be one day! And how ironic it is that in this film the organic HUMAN RACE has become soulless, mirthless, artless, jaded, self-centered cogs in a machine of blind consumerism, yet the mechanical artificial beings still respond to their surroundings like a toddler or pet : with curiosity, wonder, and delight in communication & learning.And yes there is plenty of comic relief ( albeit sans dialouge ) so no this movie is NOT BORING....It's beautiful, it even made me a little bit misty-eyed.So yeah if you're an a fan of animated films, sci-fi films, and romance you should definitely check out this movie.Obviously, it is going to win a very well-deserved Oscar for "Best Animated Film".
__label__10 I can't say enough about how good this movie, that you probably haven't read, so I'm going to keep this short.This is the best thing out there in theater's right now, and might just be the best animated film of all time, whether you believe that or not, is your own opinion, but what Pixar has done here, can put companies like Dreamworks, Sony, and Blue sky to shame.Wall E also may go down as the most lovable character ever to grace the movie screen, I praise Ben Burtt and Andrew Stanton, and the people at Pixar for what they did, and will continue to do.This is why Pixar is the top studio in the world.10/10
__label__10 I just saw the screener in the theater and was amazed. I am the kind of person that has never liked science fiction movies. I have tried all the famous movies in this genre, like Star Wars, The Matrix and A Space Odyssey and hated all of them. Next to me in the theater were a couple of Sci-fi-lovers and they loved Wall-E beyond belief. I did too, however. Wall-E is: A) A great story B) Packed with fun and humor C) Built up with memorable characters D) Fun for all ages E) Revolutionary in animation techniques The world Pixar creates is so credible, you forget it is animation. Thumbs up for Wall-E as well, he is such a cute and adorable character, you will fall in love with him immediately. I loved EVE as well.
__label__10 Not only it's Pixar's best film of all-time but it's the best movie of this year and one of the greatest imaginative, visually, moving & excellent animated films in years and surprisingly, one of the best sci-fi movies since E.T.!! Coming with high expectations, it definitely succeeded mines. It's so beautiful, moving, hilarious & sad at the same time. And for those who has been anticipating Thomas Newman's score for WALL-E, it's certainly one of his best right behind Finding Nemo in which I thought was his best score to date! Like I said it's Pixar best film so far, WALL-E knocked off Ratatouille of the top spot in which I thought it was their best film to date and officially, WALL-E is the best Pixar film i've ever seen with Ratatouille right behind and Finding Nemo, third. Pixar fan or non-Pixar fan, you'll definitely enjoy this one. WALL-E will forever be remembered as one of the most lovable characters ever created on film!!!
__label__10 I thought that Pixar was one of the greater animation studios of the new millennium; after seeing Wall-E, I'm convinced that Pixar is the greatest modern animation studio, and perhaps one of the most talented and treasured film companies period. Writer-Director Andrew Stanton has not only managed to create a technical marvel with Wall-E, pushing the boundaries of computer animation technology to the limits, but also a work of pure art that's more intelligent, heartfelt, thought provoking, and flat-out masterful than any movie in years.The film start's off on a simultaneously sweet and sour note: The opening reveals the gorgeous backdrop of galaxies and stars, with music from the movie 'Hello-Dolly!' overlapping it all in a sugary visual treat. Not seconds later, the camera traverses space to slowly close in on the planet Earth which, 700 years in to the future, has gained a sickly green tint to it along with an orbital atmosphere of pure garbage. Further zooming reveals a desolated city (New York, maybe?) its buildings and bridges rotted way. The entire opening is very reminiscent of the recent I Am Legend, except much, much more ruined. It is however, technically beautiful; the images are so photo realistic that you're amazed that they've been generated by computer. The only remnants of humanity are monstrous skyscrapers of compacted trash and billboards aplenty advertising the bright and colorful, yet somehow ominous company known as Buy n' Large, a thinly veiled Wal-Mart clone. And, of course, Wall-E itself.Wall-E is far more than a mere 'it', however. Through hundreds of nuanced and heartfelt animation quirks, as well as the "voice" given by Ben Burtt, Star-Wars veteran and creator of another famed beeping robot named R2-D2, Wall-E has been imbued with enough life to fill three-dozen cheap summer kids flicks, all without ever saying more than two or three actual words.Wall-E has been operating for centuries, long after his other Waste Allocation Load Lifter Earth-Class counterparts have shut down or broken apart, scouring the wastelands of earth and compacting the land's garbage in to neat little cubes.It's a lonely job, with the little robot's only companion being a spunky little cockroach. Wall-E has over the years collected an impressive amount of junk with which he passes the time, including lighters, toys, spare parts, and an old VHS copy of Hello Dolly!, which is Wall-E's instructor in the ways of life, love, and keenly choreographed dance. Indeed, Wall-E gazes upon two lovers holding hands and the look in his binocular eyes is both heartbreaking and beautiful. It all changes however, when a beautiful robot from the human colony in space arrives; her name is EVE. Despite here tendencies to blow up anything that moves, Wall-E is smitten at first sight, and EVE comes to eventually share those feelings. After taking note of a very unique possession of Wall-E's however, EVE reports back to the Earth ship Axiom and is whisked away back in to space. Wall-E, being as devoted as he is, follows her into the unknown, and it is there that the movie really gets going, with Wall-E and EVE taking part in an adventure with the fate of humanity itself in the balance. Characters like the Captain of the Axiom (voiced by Jeff Garlin) appearing to flesh out the film's plot, as well as a gaggle of amusing "rogue" robots that aide Wall-E and EVE in their quest. As the movie develops, however, the leading characters' romance becomes the core of the movie, with Wall-E and EVE's love being one of the few genuinely lovely and convincing romances of recent cinema. The touching moments Wall-E shares with EVE in his workshop, as well as their first "kiss" preceding a marvelous dance through space highlight a relationship that tugs at the heartstrings and moistens the eyes far more than movies like Fool's Gold or What Happens in Vegas. The romance between the two leads is the very soul of the movie, and could not have been better executed. The film is gorgeous to boot: With colors and images that dazzle and linger long after the film is over. Films like No Country for Old Men and There Will Be Blood, as beautiful as they are, seem to revel in the gloom of browns and blacks. Wall-E, on the other is vibrant and alive, turning even the beginning's post-apocalyptic wasteland in to a marvel. The biggest surprise of Wall-E, however, would be its surprising amount of maturity. Wall-E deals with themes of pollution, rampant consumerism, societal complacency and obesity, media desensitization, and other themes that would frankly fly over a child's head. Kids will see a world full of people who are humorously fat and happy; older members of the audience, however, will see a society that tells of a future not centuries ahead of us but perhaps only decades. The overblown laziness and rampant consumerism is evident already today, and the notion of Wall-E's future being so similar is funny yes, but also a touch unnerving.It is for this reason that I hold Wall-E in such high esteem: It is a heartfelt work of inarguable art that not only entertains but holds enough conscience and commentary to get even the most casual of moviegoer thinking about the future. It is beautiful and it is heartbreaking. It is funny and it is also a tad scary. It has two supposedly life-less robots teaching humanity the very meaning of being human, as well as learning the meaning of true love themselves. It made me laugh, it made me (almost) cry. It has the distinction of being Pixar's best movie, as wells as the hands down best movie of the year (so far); an almost perfect, if not completely perfect summer movie that kids and adults will almost assuredly love.And it is also one of the greatest movies I have ever seen.
__label__10 We live in a consumerist era. As any visit to a metropolitan area will prove, there is the unfaltering marriage of burgeoning commerce to a burgeoning population. Retail giants now provide services that would take more than a handful of independent stores to supply and this umbrella is continually widening. But how far can this consumerism go before it consumes us? This is where Wall-E begins, setting up the most scathing, yet perhaps most accurate futurist take on consumerism's affect on society in any animated film I've seen to date. In fact, I can't recall any film in the last several years that has taken this approach so seriously. Andrew Stanton once again throws us straight into a darkly themed film, but once again there are serious points to be had. At the outset of the film, we are introduced to a world where the skyscrapers that once housed the internal workings of business are dwarfed and surrounded by skyscrapers built of that very business' refuse. WALL-E spends his days continuously collecting and compacting the mountains of garbage that fill the streets of the city and adding it the trash skyscrapers, piece by piece. We learn very early on that this is the last functional bot of its kind, and perhaps, the only living machine on the planet. But there is something special about this surviving Wall-E; this robot performs its programmed tasks, but it has also become a curious being, collecting and organizing interesting items seen day by day. Wall-E is, essentially, the last bit of humanity left on Earth, since every other human being is either dead or living aboard the space cruise liner, the Axiom.But things change once EVE arrives on Earth. In true fashion with his curious nature, the sight of EVE is enthralling to Wall-E. Here is something new from humanity, not just the garbage and trinkets left behind for Wall-E to sift through and compact. What begins here is the most innocent yet basic of love stories I have seen or read in many years. There is a purity to Wall-E's almost hypnotic and naive interest in EVE. I don't mean this in any religious terms, but rather in the vein that neither robot has prior knowledge of love or adoration, apart from Wall-E's surviving betamax tape of Hello Dolly! as his primary source of inspiration. Everything else is rooted in simple curiosity, but it is amazing how far just that can develop one's character.Wall-E interacts with everything he finds in a very primal manner (the source of that curiosity), slowly learning about the things he finds by essentially playing with them until something happens. EVE is the dedicated but markedly emotional counterpart to Wall-E's primal self. She performs her tasks at the expense of taking notice of Wall-E. By the time she finally catches on to Wall-E's affection, the programmed side of herself sets off their exciting journey into space.Once things set into full-swing, this film does not let go of you. EVE and Wall-E are quite a dynamic duo, although not the romantic pair envisioned in Wall-E's mind for most of the film. I won't go into any further analysis here, lest I spoil the fun for anyone wishing to go see it. But I must say that the fact that we see two robots, two human creations, act as the primary humanizing force is entirely effective and what makes me love this film so much. The overall message of the film emerges from the dark outset and even darker conclusion... The ending credits are a must-view for anyone who sees the film. There is a very emotional sequence of progressions that twice put me to tears for its poignancy and in light of the beginning of the film. The way this movie ends is the same way it begins: at the core it's all about WALL-E and the things we recognize in him as inherently human: his funny personality, his compulsion toward the good, his child-like curiosity and naivety, his sense of loneliness that he tries (and fails) at anesthetizing with psychological comforts and companion place-holders.On other notes, the soundtrack is Newman's definitive work in cinema. I didn't think I would say this anytime post Finding Nemo, but it really is true. EVERY bit of music supports the film's imagery and tone while also helping shape it note by note. There is not a wasted note in this film.Also, the visual imagery is utterly beautiful and affecting. Skyscrapers of compacted garbage, the collections in Wall-E's trailer, the outer heavens, the POV's of EVE and Wall-E... All are fantastic. The cinematography is also top-notch. They might have used the back to foreground focus a bit much, but just the fact that they had Roger Deakins consult on their almost perfected simulation cinematography as well as Stanton's directorial 'mindprint' of the film speaks volumes for the studio. It is all found and spoken for in the final print.The thing about this movie is that is able to speak so much without much dialogue. Stanton has obviously learned a great deal in how to use the visual image as powerfully as possible.Verdict: Pixar gets another 10/10. They make films that speak to me in ways no other animation studio ever pulls off. The message may always be positive, but that doesn't mean the trials of Pixar characters are ever just plain and simple affairs. Stanton produced something very very special and endearing here. While the paint may be of a love story and two curious robots, he has captured nothing short of the core of our positive human nature in two inanimate objects. This is a meaningful and important film. How far can we let our lives be simplified before our own creations become more human than ourselves?
__label__10 Wall-E is the film Pixar has been working toward ever since Toy Story first tested the boundaries of computer animation. It is without a doubt the best Pixar film, if not the best computer animated feature ever made, and it ranks with the rest of Disney's classics.The story is both timeless and timely. 700 years after Earth's citizens flew away from their dumpster-like planet, one robot, the dirty and old yet clever and plucky protagonist Wall-E, is still condensing the mountains of trash into nice little piles. He discovers many of the trappings of civilization, most notably an old VHS of "Hello Dolly!" which teaches him about true love.His simple life is thrown into disarray by the arrival of another robot, Eve, sent from the humans' ship on a top secret mission. For Wall-E, it is love at first sight. But when Eve is whisked back to the spaceship, Wall-E stows away as well. Soon not only is Wall-E's courage tested, but also the humanity of all the citizens who have now become fat lazy blobs who live gliding along an easy chair.To start, the film looks gorgeous. While that is something we have come to expect from computer animated films thanks to today's technology, yet again we truly see the wonders and mysteries of outer space. But the film is much more than beautiful: it is also hilarious. On one level it has many topical jokes concerning the humans on the ship. But on a higher plane the humor of the robots has the quality of silent comedy, particularly Charlie Chaplin's Modern Times (in fact, unlike most of today's very chatty animated films, there is very little dialogue). In addition, the visuals are accompanied by an excellent score by Thomas Newman (American Beauty). Songs from Hello, Dolly insterspersed in the movie also enhance the story. Finally the voices are skilfully done. The robots' sounds convey true character and emotion, and Jeff Garlingives a great performance as the main speaking role of the film, the ship's captain.There is a lot more to say about this film. For one, it owes a huge debt to Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey, from the musical selection to the look of the ship. The amount of plunder from Kubrick's genius would be pathetic if the film itself was not brilliant or innovative in its own right. Wall-E is an experience to be seen, to be heard, and to be felt. It is a story of timeless love and a cautionary tale of where we may be going as a species and as a planet. But above all it is a masterpiece of cinema, and a work of art you must see.
__label__10 Well I don't even know where to begin there is so much in this one. Well maybe if i say i am usually cinical and disdainful towards love stories (at least those type of love stories you see nowadays...), and i usually see them only suitable for girls who wanna cry a few tissue full, and i prefer a Shakespeare-like ending, where every major character dies or loses something (sanity, beloved one etc) over an usual corny happy ending, and then i add, that i still LOVED this masterpiece so much i myself cried in the end, and i was cheering for Wall-E to remember to Eve, to get repaired and to see them "live happily ever after". I was browsing on a video-sharing channel some day and i stumbled upon a video where a guy says the following about Wall-E: "I am a cinical bastard, but even that little piece of rotten, black glass i call my heart was warmed by this movie" And i don't even get started on how delicate and clever the symbolism in this animation is. Or on how sarcastic, yet true all the scenes are, which ones are featuring the humans, who became more like a senseless pigs tied to their chair in front of their computer. The whole thing feels so gentle, so classy and uplifting i cant even tell. If humanity will extincts one day and some other intelligent species will find the ruins of our culture i want them to find this movie, and remember us as gentle, warm-hearted, intelligent beings, which we weren't most of the time. And i am not exaggerating. This was really truly this good. At least for me. Sayonara
__label__10 In the Twentieth-Eighth Century, Earth is completely depleted and with the ecological system destroyed. The powerful corporation Buy N Large builds a huge spacecraft called Axiom and sends the entire civilization for a five-year cruise while trash collector robots called WALL-E (Waste Allocator Load Lifter  Earth) would clean the planet. However, the equipment fail and seven-hundred year later, only a single robot WALL-E is performing his duty. His only companion is a cockroach and his great entertainment is watching an old "Hello Dolly" videotape. When a spaceship lands on Earth out of the blue and leaves the probe Eve, WALL-E follows her and falls in love for Eve. After a hostile initial contact, the dangerous Eve gets close to WALL-E and he gives a small plant to her. Eve gets the plant and automatically sends a signal to the spaceship that returns and takes Eve back. However, the desperate WALL-E grabs on the hull and travels through the space chasing Eve until they reach Axiom and find a full automated facility crowded by lazy and fat human beings unable even of walking with their legs. The expectation of life on Earth brings hope to the Captain against the will and prime direction of the auto-pilot that organizes a mutiny on board."WALL-E" is one of the best animations I have ever seen, with adorable characters and a deep story, showing a possible scenario of the depletion of our planet caused by the lack of concern from the big corporations with the environment. In addition, there is the beautiful love story of WALL-E, the importance of small and forgotten things; a great nostalgia of the old times among many other message. The story is very well developed in spite of having very few dialogs. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "WALL-E"
__label__10 I went in to this movie with very high expectations, having anticipated it since I saw the first previews. Pixar blew me through the roof. From the opening star-scape with "Put on Your Sunday Clothes" playing cheerily in the background, to the closing credits, this movie is in an utter masterpiece. There's never a dull moment in this beautiful film. The audience is taken through such a vast range of emotions, ranging from the pure joy of discovery, to the near-hopeless sense of defeat. Director Andrew Stanton has done it again, adding WALL-E on top of his previous Pixar success, Finding Nemo. Nemo was originally my favorite Pixar film. But then along came this little robot, who tore my heartstrings clear out of my chest and took his rightful place at the top of my favorite films list.
__label__10 I wasn't expecting much walking into the theater. I mean, since it took them six long years to come out with the third installment, you'd think that this time around, the series has pretty much run out of energy. Plus, all of the bad reviews that I read before seeing it, didn't exactly make me feel that I was going to be impressed. On the contrary, I was surprised by the performances of both Chan and Tucker. The story is fun, the characters are interesting, the comedy is sharp, and the action sequences are well done. It was fun to watch the interplay between Tucker and Chan. Tucker being the outrageous, loud, and amusing Detective James Carter. And Chan, the straight-laced, 'good guy' Inspector Lee. The charisma is still there, just like it was since the first Rush Hour movie. This one seems to have plenty of more laughs and an even more exiting climax towards the end of the movie than the previous two. I definitely recommend seeing 'Rush Hour 3', for the comedy and action elements, and especially for fans of the series like myself.
__label__10 Jim Carrey is full of surprises and the entire movie is a theatrical outburst of his talent, under the brilliant direction of Robert Zemeckis. Brilliant because it manages to make take the Dickens story and walk us through all its dimensions, without fear of sadness and, in the same time, he has the cold blood to use the magic wand for a happy end. I wasn't a big 3D fan until this movie, maybe because I didn't see any possibility to enrich the classical format, perfect as it became with the years... 'A Christmas Carol' gains a lot from 3D being a sensorial experience enhanced by IMAX technology.All in all, it's not a story for kids, because it's rather disturbing and contemplative. Gary Oldman's pointing finger will stay with you for a while... It's an enchanting story and I encourage you to go and see it.
__label__10 What would Christmas be without a visit to Charles Dickens' 'A Christmas Carol', a story that dates back to 1843 and has been loved and read every year at this time? There have been other films, stage productions, musicals, and family readings galore and it still holds the magic of what the spirit of Christmas is all about. Doubtless there will be flocks of naysayers who don't buy into this adaptation by Robert Zemekis, but given the ghost story magic Dickens' created, this film takes it one step further and makes the ghostly three spirits very much alive and beautiful fanciful. Combining the actors with animation (animating the actors might be a better way of describing the magic) makes each of the many very well known actors who portray the characters that much more credible. Jim Carrey is at his peak as an actor in his ability to become the illusions his mind creates: he portrays all three ghosts as well a Scrooge at every level of his history. Other actors who are transformed by Zemekis and staff include Gary Oldman as the trio of Cratchit, Marley's Ghost, and Tiny Tim, Colin Firth as the jovial nephew, Cary Elwes, Robin Wright Penn, Bob Hoskins, Fionnula Flanagan and a host of others. The costumes and scenery are brilliantly executed. One problem with the film that may require parental judgment is the fact that the ghosts are truly scary and children might not be able to get past the fear they instill. But they will grow into the film as it is likely a work that will be resurrected every Christmas season as a tradition. It is 'excellent, my good fellows'. Grady Harp
__label__10 I've been a fan of Disney animation for years,and no doubt they were all great. However, 'A Christmas carol' checks in at top spot on my list of most favourite animation films. This film is utter perfection and pure candies for the eyes. The depth of the characters,the effects and storyline will leave you begging for more. This film might not really suit children but for the adults,its a must watch. I was kept in awe for the most worthy an hour and a half of my life. The film appears dark at times but that's overshadowed by the perfectness it displayed.This film has taken animation to a whole other level and it has set the bar high. I urge everyone to take some time out,grab some popcorn and some extra pants ,as it might come handy at certain scenes. All in all,an absolutely amazing experience a movie can ever provide.
__label__10 I saw the 3D version of this movie on November 24. I was blown away right from the beginning as the movie takes the audience soaring over the rooftops of 19th century London, stopping every now and then to peer down into the windows of beautiful halls decorated for the Christmas season with tables being spread out with festive meals. Or down into the streets to see the common folk play and interact and work as they would have back then. The animation was superb, making me think at times that I was watching a live action movie with real actors. The movie made me laugh, it made me cry, it made me want to see it again. And it stayed pretty true to Charles Dickens' intention for writing the story, that of keeping the spirit of Christmas alive every day and feeling empathy and compassion for our fellow man. And the movie wasn't a watered down "happy holiday" movie that we've grown accustomed to in this day and age when saying the word "Christmas" at Christmas time is not politically correct. There are many beautiful traditional Christmas songs sung throughout the movie. I would recommend any fan of A Christmas Carol, no matter how many versions you've seen, to see this one (and in 3D before it leaves the theaters!).And for people who say this isn't for children: the theater was packed with children when I went. Their ages ranged from approximately 2 years to 7 or 8 (and of course teens and adults were there, too). Not a single child screamed or cried or whined, and I heard many of them around me ooooo'ing and ahhhh'ing over the movie and laughing at the funny parts (which are numerous).
__label__10 I came to this film expecting clichés, perhaps slight jumps later overtaken with fuzzy warmth and overt joy which is present in the majority of Scrooge adaptations.However, what I found was a bleak portrayal of Victorian London seated in compromising realism, with a bleakness and grim nature which was both enthralling and quietly disturbing. As the movie continued, it moved into uneasy territory with the three ghosts, whose presences were both comforting and fearful.I guess I should talk about the Marley scene. This was terrifying, with it's lingering silences and intense anticipation of his visit. The door knocker was a definite jumper, making me literally leap out of my seat. The guy's actual appearance was creepy, with his slowly decomposing corpse and dragging chains wound around his body. In a specifically disturbing scene, his jaw unhinges itself, cracking open his cheeks and his hands act like a flapper so he can speak.Yuck.All humour displayed in this piece is pitch black, with no cutesy critters or double edged one liners. The first ghost, usually predicated as the gentlest, is strange, with his flickering head and discerningly humorous face. One of the more shocking scenes is where all the faces of the past flicker on his features in a grotesque morphing session. Despite his pathos, he is not without his darker side.Things get worse with Present. He's less of a jovial, benevolent spirit but more a commanding judge with a harsh kindness, dripping with malice in later scenes and having the most haunting death I've seen in a while. And an interesting take on Ignorance and Want, as we actually see what is to become of them in adult life. One of the more disturbing scenes, due to it's truth not just in Victorian London but in society today. On a side note, Present's booming, musical laughter is turned upside down in this version, transforming it into something manic and unnatural.The scenes with Future are scary, and laced with an unpredictable edge. Though yes, we have chase scenes and miniature adventure, but the threat is still very much there and these scenes meld effortlessly into the story, merely adding another abstract element to the picture. Future is portrayed as the traditional grim reaper, but his "shadow form" is frightening on a subconsciousness level, and his bony, coal coloured pointer he has for a finger is something that caused shudders for myself.Jim Carrey plays a brilliant Scrooge, portraying him for the nasty miser that he is (this Scrooge is absolutely detestable) but with pathos and humanity, whilst also being a mixed batch with the ghosts. Past is a breathy Irish which locks in nicely with the ghosts otherworldly state, but Present....I'm not exactly sure what Present is, but hey, it works well.Gary Oldman does a mediocre Crachit, but really shines as Jacob Marley, from his bizarre manner to his varied, ghastly voice. The other gifted cast perform their roles effectively. The setting and animation is magnificent, the location of London captured with full flair. Scrooge is brilliantly animated, so much that the other characters suffer in comparison, but it is not really noticeable. Motion Capture is a mixed bag, but it works wonderfully with the mood here, adding a sub human quality which frankly I enjoyed.People complain about the lack of emotional fuzziness this story lacked, but I felt it did it well, though differently. The sorrow of Scrooge's past was subtle and underplayed, to the cracking in the old school house's walls to Scrooge's vast isolation in the world, as everything is large and ominous around him. Frightening, but poignant as well.The abstract nature of this film gathers the idea of a dreamlike, supernatural journey which I absolutely love. Scrooge's fear is our fear; his journey our journey, and whilst others didn't feel the "emotional attachment" it was though the experience of travelling with Scrooge could the audience form an connection and sympathy with the old skinflint.A stylistic, beautiful, dark piece of art. Sad, profound and terrifying, tackling human themes with no compromising coziness. I love it for that reason, and personally, I thought it was fantastic. Not without flaws, but that depends on how you take it.*DO NOT SHOW THIS TO YOUNG CHILDREN.* It is bluntly horrifying and disturbing in parts, and the whole mood of the film will not appeal to HSM obsessed youngsters. For its themes and imagery, it should have really be a 12. But for those who fancy a unique, challenging take on an old classic, I highly recommend this.
__label__10 Brilliant, absolutely brilliant! For me, this is one of the best movies in history of cinema. If you did not see it already, then go to the cinema and watch it before you read further. I apologize for my not so polished English. It's not my first language, and I'm still learning it.I went to the cinema with almost no information about this movie. All I know was its a sci-fi. I had no clue who plays in it, or who directed it. First surprise came at the ticket booth. The ticket price was around 15% higher then any other movies I have seen*. This must be a real good movie... After twenty minutes I was already bored by the clichés. East European emigrant in USA with huge dreams, became a toilet cleaner, but soon she will be saved by a werewolf and she will be some kind of princess of the "world". What an original idea... As some other reviewers pointed out, the movie is full of scenes borrowed from other movies and video games, as far as I see. Scenes, music, sound effects. Everything. Stunning visual effects, but shallow story and almost non existent character development. For the first sight... After an hour I could not believe that I paid for this... This was the first movie I was trying to sleep in.At the end there was a single sentence that stuck in my head: time is the single most precious thing in the universe. Funny, a film seemingly completely waste of time talks about your precious time.With friends we talk about the movie for an hour. The conclusion: it is so pointless that this must be the point.Then, next day it hit me! It hit me so hard, first I had to sit down, then I was walking around in my room for a half hour. This movie is like a huge puzzle. It makes no sense until you find the corner pieces. I think I found one of those pieces. TIME, the single most precious thing in the universe. This movie is about Us, about how we live, about how we waste our precious time. Its about the clichés filling our life.The first thought of her at morning: "I hate my life!" Didn't you ever thought that? Her mother and aunt works dutifully, like robots. They are the modern slaves of our days. She is dreaming about a better life, about expensive clothes, while the rich girl can not decide which cloth she should wear when her rich boyfriend will "ask her" to merry him. We all know this will not happen, but she believes it. She wants to be a wife of a rich guy. A toilet cleaner emigrant with brand new iPhone? We are working to get money, to buy things we can not afford. Her uncle practically try to sell her body parts – eggs- and take most of the money, just because "this is capitalism". Spending money before you have it. Anyone? He spends on what? Big screen TV and video games. Things he can not afford, but he thinks it will change his life. He waste money so he can wast more time. ...these are just the first few minutes!It contains countless references to movies, video games, books, to different parts of popular culture, even religions. In every scene you can find parts of other movies, games, books. Just watch it and find your pieces.We are products, just as depicted in the movie. We are just numbers on some rich and powerful peoples spreadsheet. We are money machines. Do you think most movies are made for us? NO! Most movies are made for profit. Look at the movies of the last decade. They can sell a movie with a shallow story,and stunning visuals. They can sell it with an actor. They can sell it with just a name behind it. Most people praise this movie for the stunning visuals, Mila Kunis and Channing Tatum (their bodies, not their act). Here is a movie with so deep meanings, that almost no one notices. Its not hidden. It pokes our eyes. But we can't see it. There were so many meaningless movies in the last decade, we can't see any difference. We don't even expect movies with any deeper meaning. Most of the movies and video games are just escapes from our life.I feel I need to say a few more words about the end of the movie to make it round. Did you noticed, she was smiling at the end, even while cleaning the toilet? She was not whining about her life any more. She wake up early, made coffee, and she was happier when she got that old brass telescope then when she become the absolute ruler of the Earth. She did change, but not the way you expected. She enjoys the little details of the life. Enjoys her work, even if its toilet cleaning, enjoys the morning coffee with her family, the noisy dinner. For me, it seems like, she understood that time is our single most precious thing in the universe. She enjoys every moment of her life :)As I said, this movie es a brilliant piece of art. It is about our life. You just need to find a corner piece of the puzzle. I showed one piece for you! Wake up Neo! Now go, waste some more of your precious time, watch this movie again, and find your corner pieces, make your puzzle complete :) I will do the same. I have to watch this again...Thank you for your precious time, I hope it worth reading :)PS*: probably the higher ticket price was just a coincidence. But it made more impact. The pain of wasting my time was stronger.
__label__10 It's simple. If what you want is a live-action version of the Disney cartoon, or a remake of those old "Me Tarzan, you Jane" camp fests, this isn't the film for you. If you don't like the character to begin with, this isn't the film for you. The vast majority of critics who thus far have given the movie unfavorable reviews fall into one or both of these two categories. It's disheartening, and it's so obvious they don't really know anything about the character and don't care enough to learn.If, however, you have yearned for the day in cinema when Edgar Rice Burroughs' epic hero is treated with the gravitas and respect he deserves, and if you enjoy epic jungle adventure with a heart, by all means GO SEE THIS MOVIE! It is phenomenally good! Think of it like you would a dish of food. Let's say spiced curry. If you don't like spiced curry, you won't like it no matter how well it is prepared. This movie is for those who enjoy spiced curry. For those who love it, this is the most delicious dish you're ever likely to taste.
__label__10 Although most people remember the Disney Version of Tarzan this does justice even though some people might not like it,anyway this is my opinion I liked it an it reminded me why I like this story the whole adventure of Africa and its people's culture also a bit of British imperisation. The villain is very intriguing the whole master plan he had. Tarzan having the depression and not a wanting to return to Africa. The teams of him losing his child and Wendy(give or take)her also losing her child is very well done in drama
__label__10 This is a great movie! If you love Tarzan movies ,then this is for you. I grew up on Tarzan movies. My younger brother and I watched everything Tarzan! Couldn't wait for next installment, next movie, next Tarzan. This one is fab. Good love story between Tarzan and Jane. Good Action all around. Good special effects with animals. Loved the actors as well. If you love Tarzan movies and have been watching them since the beginning, (I am now 60 years of age) then this is for you.
__label__10 As a Disney movie fan, i've always loved watching Tarzan (1999 animated) during my childhood and always do so till now. This new reboot 21st century film brings a fresh touch, epic, action, adventure, enveloped with a dynamic soundtrack. 
The actors are just the "icing on the cake".
__label__10 There's a moment in David Yates' excellent and emotionally resonant Legend of Tarzan when George Washington Williams', played by Samuel L. Jackson, goads civilized Tarzan, played by Alexander Skarsgard, just a little too much. Alexander Skarsgard's Tarzan erupts instantly and spectacularly with a combination of physical force and gut-chilling animal sounds and pins the American to a wall, then growls out the words: "They have my wife, and their families." In this single small moment, Yates and Skarsgard put on display Tarzan's utter commitment to the woman he loves while at the same time same evoking the internal contradiction of a man who in adulthood could pass among society as a aristocratic Englishman, but whose feral upbringing has left him with a volatile beast within that can overwhelm the civilized trappings in an instant. Unlike the filmmakers who have come before him, Yates effectively captures this duality – and in so doing delivers a film that is fresh and appealing to modern sensibilities, yet is faithful to the character of the books in ways that Hollywood has never attempted before. The result is pure pulp poetry with a beating heart. Edgar Rice Burroughs would approve of it, and 21st century audiences will, if they can be lured into theaters to see it, be intrigued and satisfied by it.Legend of Tarzan begins eight years after Tarzan and Jane (a luminous and effective Margot Robbie) have left Africa to undertake a gentrified life in London, where Tarzan has claimed his birthright of John Clayton III, Lord Greystoke. He is drawn back to Africa at the behest of George Washington Williams (Samuel L. Jackson), a black American journalist who is based on the historical figure who led the exposure of the crimes of King Leopold II of Belgium. Williams recruits him to assist in Williams' quest to investigate the suspected crimes of King Leopold. Accompanied by Jane, the two men return to Africa where Leon Rom (Christoph Waltz) has laid a trap for Tarzan that, if successful, will result in Rom delivering Tarzan to Chief Mbonga (Djimon Hounsou), who seeks to deliver vengeance to Tarzan for killing Mbonga's son many years earlier. Mayhem and adventure ensues.When Edgar Rice Burroughs was firing on all cylinders, his pulpy, emotionally infused adventure novels were able to strike a mythic vein that caused him to become the J.K. Rowlings of his day – the first global superstar pop culture author, translated into 57 languages, his books and characters embedded in cultures from Russia to Turkey and Japan. At the time of his death in 1950 he was the best known author on the planet with his works selling more than the combined sales of his contemporaries Hemingway, Faulkner, and Joyce. Hollywood tried more than fifty times and although the movies obviously met with success — not one of them ever captured what the grand old pulp master had created on the page. Yates is the first to do it; his Legend of Tarzan stands head and shoulders above the Tarzan movies that came before it–and regardless of how it fares in the crowded summer theatrical marketplace, it is assured of a place in cinema history as the Tarzan movie that captured the heart and spirit of Burroughs' creation.It remains to be seen how 2016 audiences react. Has Tarzan's time on the world stage passed, or is there indeed something mythic and archetypal that can cause the character to come alive in the modern imaginations? Yates and his team have given it an extraordinary "best shot" and have created something of heart, beauty, and lasting value. The editing of the film by Mark Day is taut and streamlined –not a moment is wasted and the story drives forward with energy and commitment; Henry Braham's cinematography is cool and brooding in London, and lush and earthy in Africa; the production design by Stuart Craig is grand and evocative; and the music by Rupert Gregson Williams is both emotional and pulse-quickening. Special mention goes to screenwriters Adam Cozad and Craig Brewer who updated the Burroughs material, giving it unexpected historical gravitas, while excavating from the pages of the early Tarzan books the core values that made them unique. And the CGI wizardry is seamless, photo-realistic, and effective on all levels.Give Legend of Tarzan a chance to work its magic on you. I don't think you'll be disappointed.
__label__10 I just experienced The Legend of Tarzan, and in the immortal words of the Countess Olga de Coude "Magnifique!" is the only thing that I can think. Sadly, I arrived at the theater for the early release of TLOT to an empty theater. I sat alone in the center of the empty theater reading my copy of The Return of Tarzan quietly in wait for the movie to begin. Slowly a few other viewers trickled in but sadly, the theater might as well have been completely empty. The previews for other movies came and went as previews do and then the opening of this long awaited Tarzan began.I sat in rapture as Edgar Rice Burroughs Tarzan came to life in front of my eyes. Yes, It IS ERB's Tarzan. There are liberties that Mr. Yates took with the characters and locations, but all in all, THIS IS TARZAN as he was meant to be. Quiet, Strong, Passionate, steely eyed... "Magnifique!" The Mangani are Mangani. They are not chimps nor gorillas. They are huge, magnificent beasts. Were Mr. Burroughs alive today, I wholeheartedly believe that he would jump up and down like a young child shouting "YES! YES! That's them!"Kala is every child's mother, protective and loving. The relationship between Tarzan and her is perfectly portrayed. The love Tarzan feels for his ape mother is passed on to the movie viewer to be felt, not just seen.The panoramic views of the jungle are even as ERB described them to be. Dark, foreboding, beautiful and deadly. It is the jungle of Tarzan.This is not an action movie in the vein of Captain America or any of the modern action movies. It is a story. A very well told story of adventure driven by the love of a man for his mate. Is there action? Of course there is action. It wouldn't be Tarzan without action. But first and foremost, it is a very well written and delivered story. It is a story that Edgar Rice Burroughs himself would have told. He would be proud and finally relieved that his creation had finally come to life in a manner that does justice to his creative genius.I sat through the movie mesmerized. Spellbound. It ended just like it should, you won't be disappointed. As the credits began to roll, I quietly stood up, still in a mostly empty theater, and walked out to my awaiting truck to drive home and write this review.If people listen to the critics who did not like this movie, they will be missing out.For those of us who love the works of Edgar Rice Burroughs, GO SEE THIS MOVIE!I wish I could say more, there is so much to say. I'll end this with this. I'll go see it again, and again and when it comes out on DVD, I'll own it and watch it till I have seen it as many times as I have read the books, which is really saying something.
__label__10 They finally portrayed the Tarzan character more like Burroughs wrote him! This is the best Tarzan movie I have ever seen. The acting is superb, and the settings are beautiful. The movie was so good that it seemed like I wanted it to last longer. It was sheer entertainment!The stars of the film were really excellent in their roles, and I thought the two main characters perfectly played their roles. The rest of the cast were excellent also. The story moves along briskly, and the plot is very effective. I believe people will enjoy it, even if they know nothing about Tarzan. This is a very enjoyable movie, and I recommend it. We are going to see it again this weekend and bring our family and friends!
__label__10 FLASHBACK: 1998 Having tracked the project from pre-production to final release, and with all the excitement and anticipation I'd built up for the film, I entered a dark theater in Little Rock, AR completely jacked UP to see "Tarzan And The Lost City". It was the Saturday noon matinée, first weekend of the release. Having read the original novels as a youth, I was looking so forward to the movie that would do justice for a modern audience regarding the character I grew up loving, dispelling all the silly pop-cultural stereotypes and giving him a proper and fitting introduction. I got the best seat in the house that day, but for the wrong reason as I looked around and realized I was the only one in the room. Optimistically, I later joked with friends that I'd gotten a "private screening" of the film. A few years later, I ended up launching my Tarzan fansite, TARZAN.CC, utilizing many graphics pilfered from the "Tarzan and the Lost City" website to emulate the look. It was my tribute to the film. And I soon began that journey of excitement and anticipation yet again for the new rumored Warner Bros. Tarzan project. I'd love to chronicle that adventure here, but it would distract from this review so I'll sum it up by recognizing the names of the fallen on that journey: Director John August, Director Guillermo del Toro and Screenwriter John Collee, Director Stephen Sommers I finally lost hope that the film would ever come to fruition.And then, a few years beyond a decade later, Warner Bros. were basically told to get their act together or lose their option on the project. And they stepped up to the challenge in spades with "THE LEGEND OF TARZAN".Just last Tuesday, I was privileged to attend a private early screening with the film's producers, members of the Edgar Rice Burroughs family, several very esteemed persons tightly connected to the Tarzan universe in film, print, art, and fandom, plus a few friends I brought along to see how they received it.On all fronts, "The Legend of Tarzan" was a KNOCK OUT OF THE PARK!!! A state of the art theater on the studio's own lot packed to the brim with eager fans; once again, the BEST seat in the house (depending on your tolerance). I was 2nd row center, with a HUGE screen in front of me and the killer audio rattling me to the bones.The reaction to the film was UNANIMOUS as we applauded straight through the final credits. Finally, a studio who put the money necessary into producing the RIGHT film. Finally, a screenwriter and director who cared enough about the source material to fight hard for their vision of the film, and get the right actors for the job. And FINALLY a film worthy of the original character of Tarzan from Edgar Rice Burroughs' original novels, with all his power, fearlessness, and without hesitation toward action against insurmountable challenges.See this film expecting to see a fitting representation of real heroism driven by love, dedication, and absolute resolve. This generation has been sorely deprived of these types of positive, character-inspiring role models as marketing peeps have instead perfected the profitable art of catering to and nurturing our more dangerous, self-destructive instincts and childlike demands for instant gratification and our society has unarguably become weaker for it. It's time for a whole new generation to rediscover their primal drive to love and protect their own, fight for their place in this world, and establish their individuality as leaders instead of followers. This is the film we've been WAITING for, and I'm encouraging people to drop their concepts and preconceptions, see the film, and learn from it. This is an ERB novel realized on screen, a true pulp adventure beautifully brought to life with dramatic excellence, and for new folks it might require the ability to step outside their familiar world for a moment to appreciate. If it doesn't quite grab you the first time through, a second viewing is highly recommended.AAA+++ 10/10
__label__10 The audience at this afternoon's preview screening of The Lion, The Witch & The Wardrobe, at New York's AMC 25 theater in Times Square, broke out in spontaneous applause at least three or four times. It seems that director Andrew Adamson has brought a thaw to normally-jaded New Yorkers as well as to the 100-year winter of Narnia. The movie pulls the viewer into the story right from the opening scenes of war-ravaged England, where siblings Lucy, Susan, Peter and Edmund (wonderful performances by all) are sent from their homes to the relative safety of 'the professor's' country estate where, during a game of hide-and-go-seek, young Lucy hides in the wardrobe only to discover the passage to the land of Narnia. From this point, the multi-layered story of betrayal, courage, sacrifice, redemption and hope unfolds into a briskly paced 2 hour and ten minute adventure that leaves the viewer emotionally charged and thoroughly entertained. The musical score is appropriately stirring and moody. The computer generated creatures are sophisticated to the point where the technology disappears and you begin to accept the performance, and not the special effect! This brings us to Aslan - if the talking lion didn't work, the movie would fold in on itself and go away. Aslan works,however, and works very well. Voiced by Liam Neeson, Alsan is both believable as a 'literal' lion and as Aslan, talking lion, King of Narnia. Aslan's face is expressive and noble, and Neeson's voice acting has strength and dignity. This film succeeds on so many levels, it would be possible to discuss it in many different veins: the direction, the story's surface-level themes, the theological possibilities, the drama, the fantasy, the adventure.... Yes - it's an action film, a dramatic film, a fantasy, a somewhat-dark (yet hopeful) fairy-tale. It has humorous moments and frightening moments, like most truly great 'family' films always seem to have. The bottom line is, this is a film that will leave you the better for having seen it. There's much to reflect on and much to simply enjoy - there's certainly enough to keep you thinking for a while, and that's always a good thing. Aslan, indeed, is on the move!
__label__10 The Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe should go down in the history books right up there with the likes of Lord of the Rings. I went to see it expecting a very good movie. I came out stunned by the magnitude of the picture. Everything about it is so well done, the casting, the scenery, the score. Lord of the Rings is the only thing I can think of to compare it to. I experienced the same overwhelming sense of awe watching both of these phenomenal pictures. The CG images are very good, though not quite as startlingly realistic as those in LOTR. I cannot find fault with the casting in any way.Though the voice of Liam Neeson is not as I would have imagined a lion's at first, it is smooth, confident, and effective. Aslan is given the presence so essential to the heart of the story. I must comment on the performance of James McAvoy as Mr. Tumnus, which I believe was the best in the film. Lucy was adorable, and surprisingly convincing, and Peter was given a very firm performance. I was a little nervous about how Edmund would turn out, but I needn't have worried; those large, startlingly dark eyes are perfect for the change from traitor to hero. I commend the directors of the movie on their strict adherence to the book. Narnia isn't just "based" on the book. It IS the book. The scope, depth, and wonder of Lewis's world have been captured in a timeless manner that should be cherished for all ages. This is a movie for everyone, at a level for children to understand, yet with a fast plot and exciting battle sequences that will keep anyone interested. The last battle scene especially is as touching as any I have ever seen, including those in LOTR, putting tears in my eyes even while my heart soared. Go see Narnia for an exciting, well-done film, and a timeless message that our world so desperately needs.Ten stars!!
__label__10 The Chrinicles of Narnia, the lion the witch and the wardrobe, is now my favorite movie! this movie was FANTASTIC! the actors are amazing and the movie is just so exactly like the book. If you read the book and are going to see the movie, you will not be disappointed. The movie was better than i expected actually. It's such an amazing and imaginative movie it's just enchanting. I wouldn't normally give any movie 10 stars, but i gave this one 10 stars out of 10. When i was watching the movie, and seeing all the sets and the props, i felt like i had already seen them before. Like they had taken them right out of my imagination when i was reading the book. I know not everyone will have this feeling, but i did, and it was magical. Even if you don't want to see this movie, go because it really is a spectacular and magical movie.
__label__10 I saw this film on November 30th in Indianapolis. I am one of the judges for the Heartland Film Festival that screens films for their Truly Moving Picture Award. A Truly Moving Picture "explores the human journey by artistically expressing hope and respect for the positive values of life." Heartland gave that award to this film.Four young children enter the timeless world of Narnia through the door of a wardrobe piece of furniture while playing hide-and-seek. And what a world it is. There are talking animals, dwarfs, giants, beasts, centaurs, and indescribable half-human combinations. And, in this world of Narnia there is a titanic struggle between the White Witch and her evil army and the good lion Aslan and his noble army. Although it doesn't seem possible, you can suspend disbelief and become engaged in the story because the artistry and technology are so outstanding. The art direction, special effects, cinematography, editing and sound will most likely and should be nominated for Academy Awards. The lion Aslan dominates your attention in every scene he appears in, and as the story unfolds, he becomes as human-like as any of the four children. The four children seem normal enough with their constant teasing and fighting among themselves, but when events truly matter, they come together and exemplify the highest standards of sacrifice, courage, fidelity and heroism. Both children and adults will find inspiration and role models in these four children. The lion Aslan is a mystical and almost biblical hero. There are many parallels between Aslan and Christianity, and you can watch this film anywhere in the religious-secular spectrum you care to. I suspect that over many years the other six books that make up The Chronicles of Narnia will be made into movies and they will have the same type of financial and artistic success as The Lord of the Rings film trilogy had. That is high praise indeed.FYI  There is a Truly Moving Pictures web site where there is a listing of past Truly Moving Picture Award winners that are now either at the theater or available on video.
__label__10 The visuals for this film are absolutely stunning. Just breathtaking. The acting is done well, the voice-overs included. the CG animation on the creatures are marvelous. I read this series over and over as a child and just re-read them recently in anticipation of the movie. Although as a purist-at-heart I was slightly disappointed to see even a second of the precious work edited, overall I am amazed at how well they adapted the tale to fit into a neat little 2 hour time frame. I feel that nothing important was omitted and the parts that were adjusted in the script were done so well that it still could have passed for C.S. Lewis' own hand. I was lucky enough to preview this film (and to see it free, to boot), but I am certain that I will be trekking to the theatre to see it a few more times on the big screen. BRAVO!
__label__10 C.S. Lewis' classic is reborn in 'The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe', when four children from war-torn England find themselves transported to a land of myth and fantasy. It has been foretold that they will bring peace to Narnia. But can they survive the evil treachery of the mysterious White Witch who claims to be Queen? In this rendition, C.S. Lewis' imagination is brought to life with amazing special effects. Centaurs, Fauns, and Gryphons all come to life in this great body of work. The whole family will enjoy this film. Liam Neeson is wonderful as Aslan the Lion.I can not say that was all that impressed with Tilda Swinton as the White Witch. She looked the part, but did not seem as treacherous as I had hoped.Overall this is a really good film. If you are familiar with the story, then there are no real surprises, but makes up for it with incredible CGI animation.
__label__10 I am, by nature, wary of any film that relies upon children to play the lead roles. I have avoided the Harry Potter films like the plague, working on the (frequently reinforced) principal that no film ever manages to get close to as good as my imagination. At long last I have had that theory disproved. I have just spent the last 2 hours sitting in the cinema with a massive smile in my face (with occasional grimaces as the idiot sitting next to me insisted on talking to his girlfriend. I think there should be some kind of panic button that gets the ushers running in with night-sticks to sort these muppets out). Having spent the last 2 months trying to get a job it was the most amazing experience to rewind the clock by 15 years and feel the rush of wonder and awe as the magical world of Narnia sprung to life on the big screen. The casting crew did a fantastic job, with practically every character looking and acting exactly as I had imagined them since I was a child. Once again New Zealand came up trumps, and the splendour of the scenery perfectly complimented the fantasy of the story.I've never felt compelled to write a commentary on this site before, but I was so relieved and enchanted by this film that I couldn't help but try to spread the word.Sit back, relax and let yourself be taken back to the magic and and excitement of your childhood.
__label__10 I saw this movie with very high hopes and they were met. The acting was excellent and the special effects set a new standard for Hollywood. This, in my mind is the best movie of the year and a best picture nominee for sure. I do not think that it will win the best picture Oscar though because it is only the first movie in a series of seven. Each book though, unlike the LOTR series, is a completely different story with many different characters. Overall, this movie is a must see and the next six will likely be the same. C.S. Lewis is an amazing story teller in the people behind this production are amazing film producers.
__label__10 I went to see the new Narnia movie tonight, and I have to say, I was extremely impressed. The story was touching and powerful, the acting was exceptional, and the special effects were amazing! I was never been into fantasy movies until Lord of the Rings came out, which I thought was great. This movie was also very very good. From the beginning of the movie, I felt swept away into the story. I am rarely excited about new movies, but I was about this one, and it totally exceeded my expectations. I highly recommend this film. It is based on a kid's book, but it appeals to people from every background and age.I think we are witnessing the beginning of an awesome epic series! 10 Stars!
__label__10 Excellent, excellent, excellent. Worth seeing again and again. This is one of those movies that is worth investing in so that the movie industry will continue to make movies like it. It contains exceptional moral values, faith, love and hope. It has action and great special effects. It explores the imagination and beautiful fantasy lands. Kids and adults alike that have an appetite for worthwhile entertainment will definitely enjoy it. The movie, based on the book by brilliant author C.S. Lewis, follows the details in the novel exactly. It is such a moving book and now film. The four children, facing such a hard time in their lives, are summoned upon to fulfill an intriguing prophecy and the movie depicts their journey, both physical, spiritual, and moral.The child actors all display outstanding young talent. The voices of the characters are captivating. Everything about this movie was just done in an exceptional manner. A+ and bravo on this one.
__label__10 I often read postings from movie-goers who rail on and on about "the best movie ever." Far more often than not, they are films of little depth, thin stories, and little artistic value.Tonight, my wife and I saw "Narnia" and were absolutely bowled over. This is a story - a portrayal - a delivery - that is simply overwhelming. A film of over 2 hours in length seemed to fly by. The actors - unknown to us - were delightful. Of particular note is the young person playing "Lucy." She is captivating - in face and charm. She carried her role very nicely, and worked well with her peers.Special effects were wonderful in animal and human form - as well as the semi-humans. And, let us not forget The Beavers - tried very hard to steal the show, and almost succeeded.There was a primary hero, but several more supporting heroes. And, much to our delight, there was a villain that we REALLY wanted to "boo." I don't believe we overstate our position when we cast our vote for Film of the Year for "Narnia." Go see it, and enjoy.
__label__10 When examined closely, most of the mud that is being thrown at this movie by the critics will be found to attack the established timeless classic work of C.S. Lewis itself with sales in the hundreds of millions of copies. So much for critics! The only real question left to us does not concern the story at all, but rather Adamson's rendition of the story. That being said, I can tell you that Adamson's inspired work with the characters of Lucy and Aslan, Walden's Special effects and Disney's resources have created a masterpiece of cinematic literature that I believe will prove to be as timeless as "It's a wonderful life" or "The wizard of OZ". It is tasteful and humane with no unnecessary blood and gore, and faithful in its rendition of Aslan, who does something wonderful not contained in any of Tolkien's trilogies.
__label__10 I read all 7 books when I was younger and was so excited when I saw the previews for this one on t.v. My 5 yr old son saw it too and wanted to see the movie so on Christmas Day I took him. This movie was SO GOOD my 5 yr old sat through the whole 2 and a half hrs!!!! To me if a movie can make a 5 yr old sit still that long it is better then expected!!! I loved this movie and now my son wants me to buy the series and read them all to him lol. He also wants to go see it again. It is a great move for children, maybe not all that young but in general. I highly recommend this movie i enjoyed it a great deal. So if u haven't seen it go see it!!! It was worth the total $20 i spent on tickets and refreshments!!!
__label__10 Okay, this is already the fourth superhero film we have gotten so far this year. The fact that it's this good blows my mind, it's the sixth entry in the main X-Men series, and it might be the third best after X2 and Days of Future Past. Oscar Isaac gives an outstanding performance as the mutant menace: Apocalypse, he was the highlight of the film right next to Fassbender's Magneto (who never fails to deliver). In a year with pathetic and disappointing superhero film villains so far, Apocalypse gives us the layered and threatening performance we want from our villains. Evan Peters returns as Quicksilver once more to give us an amazing scene that tops the one from Days of Future Past. The newcomers are fantastic and exciting and we will certainly see them again in the future. They also finally got Cyclops right! Forget about Rotten Tomatoes and go see this film opening weekend, you won't regret!
__label__10 I am horrified by the people on the message boards here on this movie's threads. They're fighting each other like a bunch of hungry animals. Since when does everyone started listening to the critics? I mean, yes, to have an idea before watching a movie is good, but that's not the case these days. Critics are taking movies way too seriously these days. It's just a source of entertainment. Your life does not depend on it. Stop bad mouthing this movie for others. Okay, sorry for my rant but this has gotten out of control. Now getting back to the movie, let's just say it delivered what it promised. This movie was amazing. It really felt like you were watching something Apocalyptic. Although I don't have had a problem with Bryan Singer's X Men movies, unlike a bunch of whiny babies, this one actually felt like it was an X Men movie. A sheer resemblance of what we saw in X Men cartoons, both evolution and the 1990 ones. We actually saw the main characters of this movie in their mutant form. I have loved how Bryan always preferred acting over action in his other movies, but this one, it consists of both. I have also seen critics saying that this movie is complete CGI. Well it's not like you can do actual Apocalyptic level scenes without having any CGI effects. That's just crazy. And the CGI in this movie is beyond awesome. I already smell an Oscar for CGI for this movie. Oscar Isaac was so impressive in this movie. Even though he was buried under make up and what not, you could actually feel his performance. Michael and James once again give awesome performances. Expected nothing less from Jennifer Lawrence. At least these movies actually give spotlight to the female actresses *cough* *Marvel* *cough*. The new actors were great. So talented. Tye, Sophie, Alexandra, Kodi and of course Evan Peters were all good in their respective roles. This movie might feel a different because of it's whole world at stake thing. This is the first time X Men has done this, and they succeed really good at it. It had a perfect balance of action, humor, emotion and mutants. It was like watching a live action version of those X Men cartoons we grew up watching. Once again, please dear my friends, who would love to see these guys in MCU, it's not happening anytime soon. Let's just get over it, okay? The producer of these movies has already announced a bunch of new movies under Fox. There are X Men TV shows coming out soon, so let us enjoy these while you guys enjoy yours okay?
__label__10 The movie gave everything I expected from it, and more.Action? Check.Drama? Check.Funny moments and scenes? HUGE check. (still laughing when replying in my mind! :))Unlike many who watched the pre-premiere, I'm not a groupie of the X-men series, but still enjoyed each and every minute.Reading other reviews, looks like it's a good thing I'm not a groupie, because that means I don't have to stop and think about every action in the movie. I could just sit back, watch with clear mind, and enjoy.All in all, just fun to watch. 140 minutes that end with a desire for 140 more.
__label__10 We've been subjected to enormous amounts of hype and marketing for the Dark Knight. We've seen Joker scavenger hunts and one of the largest viral campaigns in advertising history and it culminates with the actual release of the movie.Everything that's been said is pretty much spot on. This is the first time I can remember where a summer blockbuster film far surpasses the hype.For as much action as there is in this movie, it's the acting that makes it a great piece of work. Between all the punches, explosions and stunt-work is some great dialog work. All the actors have their moments.Bale's Batman is the definitive Batman because we see everything in this character finally on film. Martial arts skills, cunning, great tactical thinking, forensic application, technological genius to advance or improve Luscious Fox's inventions/technological breakthroughs, intimidating personality, and even a little swashbuckling. As for Heath, yes he gets credit for his performance as the Joker. But you have to also recognize Jonathan and Chris Nolan for the writing and treatment of the character. It's not just the fact that Ledger makes the Joker so menacing, but the Nolans have given the character this great manifesto that drives its actions. The Joker's stance on chaos, order, anarchy, the morality of the average modern human being make the character so interesting psychologically. The Nolans drafted a complex character and only a perfect performance could've pulled something like this off. That's how difficult of a role this was, and that's why Ledger's performance is so great.This isn't an action movie. It's a film that explores literary themes of the hero and villain, as well as order and anarchy. Yes, listen to the dialog because it's all in there.
__label__10 I got to see The Dark Knight on Wednesday night, the reason though why I'm writing this movie comment this late is because I didn't wanna just jump and say this movie was awesome, I wanted to think it through, still today, I can't stop thinking about this movie! The Dark Knight lives up to it's hype and goes beyond it, this is the Batman movie that goes where no other Batman movie has gone before. It gave us a real sold story, we are finally told why the villains are the way they are, how all the injustice in the world can get underneath Batman's skin, how you have to believe that people still have faith in good on Earth. Heath Ledger, I absolutely loved Jack Nicolson's performance in the 1989 film, when I first read that Heath was signed onto The Dark Knight, I was like "What are they, kidding?", once you see The Dark Knight... Heath was incredible! I'm not going to compare Jack and Heath's performance, because they were two different versions of the Joker, but Heath's Joker was definitely the more scary and intense of the two nominations. You didn't know what he was going to do next, he was so crazy, he was also so charismatic to the point where you could relate to his character, and the worst part is not only that he's crazy, he's driving Gotham crazy and treating everyone like little puppets on strings that he can control, and guess what, he is doing it so well with a smile on his face. This was so much more than a Batman film, this was so much more than a comic book film, The Dark Knight truly delivers with drama, action, romance, horror, dark humor, the study of a psychopathic killer, a detective story. The force behind this epic movie is Christopher Nolan, who's previous film, Batman Begins, didn't really thrill me, but his incredible film making is truly shown in The Dark Knight, the shots that he got of Gotham City were absolutely fantastic and made you feel part of the city, part of the Batman story. One of the things that I absolutely loved about The Dark Knight is that normally with a comic book movie, you know it's not real, people don't dress up in costumes, and save the day, villains don't name themselves crazy names and dress in make up or crazy costumes, but The Dark Knight actually makes it seem incredibly real, like it could happen.Bruce Wayne is still learning how to be in his double life of Batman and himself, he has lost Rachel to the new district attorney, Harvey Dent, he's inspiring others who are dressing up as Batman and are trying to take on the villains of the city themselves. But things are much worse when the Joker waltzes into town, and he's going to bring Hell upon Gotham City. Constantly playing with Gotham's mind and trying to get Batman to reveal himself, Batman has never dealt with such a psychopathic genius before. The Joker has named himself as the "Classy Villain that Gotham needs", he also has brought a new thought into Batman's head of them actually being more alike than different, that Batman completes him, the Joker would be nothing without him. But Batman is relying on Harvey Dent, who is Gotham's "White Knight" trying to put all of Gotham's scum in jail. But when the Joker plays Batman and Commissioner Gordon, Harvey and Rachel find themselves in very horrific position and Harvey must discover if he will die a hero or live long enough to become a villain.All the performances are dead on in this movie, now everyone's going crazy over Heath Ledger's performance, but one performance I would also love to credit is Aaron Eckhart who plays Harvey Dent/Two Face, his performance was just as great as Heath's and made Two Face a human villain. You could understand his hatred and vengeance on what happened to him and why he became Two Face. I know that everyone is saying this but I truly mean when I say this is one of the best movies I have seen in a very long time. We had some great movies these past few years, but I think The Dark Knight is seriously something special, but I don't wanna build it up too much since some people go to the theater expecting my words to be the same as your own. In my opinion though this is not a great movie, I can't come up with a word describe how incredibly powerful this movie was, to be honest I would go above a 10 rating if I could; this is the Batman film that we have been waiting for. I've seen it twice in one weekend, I'm going to see it three times this upcoming week, I don't mind one bit. I can't wait for the sequel and I would just like to say RIP to Heath, wish he could have seen his breath taking performance as The Joker.10/10
__label__10 Im just gonna start off by saying I LOVE this movie.Its one of my favorites of all time. I honestly cant think of too much wrong with this movie other than its a little long and Batmans by now infamous voice. But everything else is top notch. The acting,story,atmosphere,and actions scenes are all amazing. If you haven't seen this movie see it right now! I went into this not expecting to much but I came out blown away, I cant imagine any movie being much better. I'll just have to wait for The Dark Knight Rises to release to see if anything can be better. Until then, this stands as the best movie I've ever seen
__label__10 I couldn't believe "The Dark knight" could live up to the hype. That's perhaps the biggest surprise. The secret, I believe, is a stunning, mature, intelligent script. That makes it the best superhero movie ever made. As if that wasn't enough, Heath Ledger. He, the newest of the tragic modern icons present us with a preview of something we'll never see. A fearless, extraordinary actor capable to fill up with humanity even the most grotesque of villains. His performance is a master class. Fortunately, Christian Bale's Batman is almost a supporting character. Bale is good but there is something around his mouth that stops him from being great. "The Dark Knight" is visually stunning, powerful and moving. What else could anyone want.
__label__10 I saw the dark knight about three years ago when I was in the 8th grade. And I was blown away at how beautifully done it was, the camera work, the acting, the story, it all took me by surprise. It is to this day one of the best movies I have ever seen or will see. No other movie can impact you in such an intense way than The Dark Knight. It is a movie worth seeing due to the fact that the workers put so much time and effort into this one film and they did not want to waste money putting up garbage. So Christopher Nolan, thank you for not wasting our time, instead earning our time with this film. To this day I still am anxious to see the movie at home. I recommend it to anyone who likes action movies in general. To anyone who doesn't, don't waste your time write bad reviews about this film.
__label__10 Christopher Nolan's second bundle of joy "The Dark Knight" EXCEEDED all  of my expectations!!! With the success of 2005's reboot of the Batman  franchise, they took what was already established and expanded it,  amped it up, and gave a deeper, darker and brooding story that is more  gripping and the suspense is likely to catch you of guard several times  throughout. Christian Bale delves more deeper into Batman, sworn to  fight evil and injustice, though also quite reluctant and uncertain if  his crusade can ever end and cleanse his inner turmoil from his  fractured soul due to the murder of his beloved parents. But with the  help of his trusted butler/ally Alfred (played superbly by Michael  Cane) grounds him, gives him moral support, and keeps him in check. But  the real star of the show is Heath Ledger as Batman's most deadly  enemy, The Joker. I can HONESTLY tell you that: as good as Jack  Nicholson was in Batman'89 he is CHILD'S PLAY compared to this Joker.  He is sadistic, psychotic, and downright SCARIER and PSYCHOLOGICALLY  disturbing than the previous incarnation of The Clown Prince of Crime  and Ledger gives it his all to do him justice. Along with the original  cast comes some fresh faces such as Aaron Eckhart, Maggie Gyllenhaal  and more. I must say though I liked Katie Holmes, Gyllenhaal gives a  much better performance and is a far cry from the "damsel-in-distress"  stereotype (though there's a little of it, THANKFULLY) that's common in  films. Bale and Gyllenhall have MUCH better chemistry this time around  more so than Holmes. Even better, the fight sequences are vastly  improved and feature more brutal and bone crushing combat than "Begins"  in addition to new technology at Batman's disposal.  Also worth mentioning is screenwriter Jonathan Nolan, who gives the  film an added frosting to an already delicious cake.  Simply put, The Dark Knight is totally more bad ass than "Begins." The  action is great, and the plot is more deeper and engrossing. I applaud  Christopher Nolan, Christian Bale, and especially Heath Ledger (who  sadly passed away earlier this year) and all those aboard for believing  in Mr. Nolan's talents for this second installment. Although some may  feel a bit of melancholy over Ledger's death, but as a final note I  will say this sincerely from my heart: Remember Heath Ledger and honor  him in your minds and hearts not only for his performances, but as a  human being and father to his daughter Matilda  Ledger. May we issue him best wishes for his family and friends and his  daughter for years to come. Remember . . . Honor him not only for this  role and past roles, but as an incredible individual and talented  actor.  Rest in peace. Heath Ledger: 4/4/1979-1/22/2008.
__label__10 I used to leave a theatre after seeing a highly anticipated movie, specifically a sequel, and be so revved up about what I saw that I would declare that movie to be the best of a series. After each of the prequel "Star Wars" films, I rated that one the best, as good as any of the originals...for a time, until my opinion balanced out and I had a more well-rounded take. For that reason, I steer away from that mindset, and did for "Dark Knight".Though my opinion is solidifying already after having seen a Warner Bros. screening last night, "Dark Knight" ably stands on its own with or without "Batman Begins". At a two and a half hour runtime, it's definitely an epic of a movie, but one that never runs out of gas. A delightful addition to this experience was a healthy amount of IMAX footage, which significantly adds to the feel of being on a personal, and gruesome, tour of Gotham City.Christian Bale plays such a well rounded Batman and Bruce Wayne, qualities that none of those who have donned the cowl before him have pulled off. I still have to remember that Bale is British since he speaks with such a spot on American accent. Bale has a particular slurring lisp that serves him quite well, charmingly for Bruce Wayne and threateningly for Batman.Countering him is the late Heath Ledger, who plays such a scary and creepy Joker that I found it impossible to NOT have chills half the time I saw him on screen. What really separates this brand of Joker from Jack Nicholson's portrayal is true unpredictability. It's obvious that, to be a good guy and think like the Joker, it really takes a toll, and it sure isn't easy. How exactly does one take him down when he's woven his harebrained plot around multiple hostages, explosives, or disappearing parlor tricks?Initially, I was uneasy about how the character of Harvey Dent would be handled. In my mind, there was really only one faithful portrayal of him, and that could be found in the "Batman" animated series of the early 90s. As well as Tommy Lee Jones COULD have handled him in "Batman Forever", he certainly did not, though it still was a highlight of that movie. Aaron Eckhart ably assumes the mantle here, delivering a performance out of this world, easily on par with the Batman animated series.Be it known, this caped avenger stands for the good of Gotham City that the police force and its counterparts can't represent, the good that has no jurisdiction, no procedures...and no rules, save for one. I can only hope that we've seen just the prelude to the Dark Knight's upcoming legendary battles with the worst of Gotham City's dark underside."The Dark Knight" gets a solid 10 of 10 stars.
__label__10 I must say I was excited for this movie since the instant BATMAN BEGINS appeared on screen at the end of the first film. It was always going to be good, and sadly, it was always going to be over-hyped by the advertising warhorses.It is rare though, that a movie can surpass all the hype and pass all expectations on the film. Nolan (The Prestige, Begins) delivers on more than the Joker we remember from the 'Old Days' of Burton and Nicholson. Instead we're given a psychopathic sadist who pleasures from sheer anarchy.All the hailing of Ledger's performance are grounded. Watching it will make you feel a different chill down your spine than you'd remember from any other film. It's impossible, quite literally to relate to The Joker. He gets inside your head with his stories of how he got his scars, makes you laugh at his sick jokes, then makes you instantly wonder why you're laughing.If Ledger wasn't enough to horrify you - wait for Harvey Dent. Brilliantly portrayed by Aaron Eckhart as Gotham's 'fallen White Knight' and Batman's direct counterpart. His transformation will put Tommy Lee Jones' portrayal look like children's breakfast cartoons. Gyllenhaal had perfect chemistry with both Bale and Eckhart, Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman both work well as Batman's 'conscience' and of course, Gary Oldman as Lieutenant Gordon were all solid.There are some major differences between The Dark Knight and Begins. Firstly, the music is extremely disconcerted compared with the 'majestic but unfinished' tones of Begins - but it suits the film's tone: Anarchy in every sense. There was a more solid singular villain (compared with the many in Begins) - but there was also a lot more henchmen in TDK. The martial art direction was faster and more efficient - as mentioned in the film, learning through experience.I was disappointed at the role of Scarecrow in this film, it just felt like a loose thread and wasn't quite closed up or explained, and the ending, while it wasn't what I expected (others have said that it was predictable, but for me it wasn't) was solid and suited the film well.All in all, this is a film that is quite close, if it isn't already, a masterpiece. Nolan has a great thing going and unlike previous 'Superhero' adaptations (Spiderman and Fantastic Four for example), there isn't campiness creeping in. In face, if Batman Begins was 10/10, The Dark Knight deserves a 12. Quite simply, the best possible sequel that could've been given.If you watch this (which I implore that you do), you certainly won't regret it. One of the best movies of 2008 (I'll wait till Quantum of Solace comes out before I pass judgement) - but certainly a film worth getting excited for. If you don't like it, then that's also fine - but keep in mind that you probably thought Meet The Spartans was a good movie, so the rest of us won't take it to heart.Stunning in every aspect, and exceeds all hype and expectation... Can't wait to watch it again, or for the Blu-Ray!
__label__10 I think the big question...or the question everyone actually cares about is this: Is Christopher Nolan's follow up to the critically acclaimed 2005 film "Batman Begins," The Dark Knight, as good as everyone is saying? Quite simply, yes, yes it is. There is no doubt about it, one of the most anticipated movies of the 21st century duly deserves every amount of praise lavished onto it. This is no ordinary superhero movie, this is a character and dialogue driven piece, not as action orientated as you might expect.I will not go into plot details, because there is a lot of it. However, a basic one sentence summary is: Batman now has to face his most cunning and psychotic enemy, someone with no real motives...The Joker. Now that that is out of the way, I will start off with the actors (and boy, is there a lot to talk about). Christian Bale has done a tremendous job as our beloved Caped Crusader, with him already blowing everyone else out of water with "Batman Begins." Bruce Wayne has a flawed personality that hangs on the balance between righteousness and criminal. His perception of justice causes an emotional and personal shift, whether he is a wealthy businessman who fights crime in a gadget-riddled suit or just a normal man who is sick of all the scum in Gotham City and decides to give the law-breakers a dose of their own medicine. Because of this, and Bale's tremendous acting, Bruce Wayne is justified, and we emphasise with Bale's flawed hero more than any of the other actors. If there ever was an excellent Batman, this is it. The theme of right and wrong is played well with his character here.Of course, I am sure you all want know if Heath Ledger was that good. And I can safely say that he most definitely was. Ledger's Joker is not only the best, but is now the greatest superhero film villain ever. His performance is truly terrifying, chilling, brilliant; any synonyms of the previous adjectives. Every scene he is in is stolen. The Joker truly is Batman's worst villain; cunning and psychotic, nothing quite matches his laugh and sinister makeup. If Ledger nabs the Oscar for Best Actor, I honestly will not be surprised. It is a true tragedy to see such a talented actor fall at such a young age...All the other actors cannot be forgotten, though. Aaron Eckhart has definitely proved himself previously ("Thankyou for Smoking") as someone to watch out for. Here, as Harvey Dent (and later Two Face) he is very powerful. All he wants is justice; to bring down every single criminal. Eckhart is the definitive Two Face. Maggie Gyllenhaal as Wayne and Dent's love interest, Rachel Dawes is much better than Katie Holmes. Gyllenhaal's performance has substance, I really cared for her and her future and she was terrific in every scene. Michael Caine can do no wrong, and as Alfred Pennyworth he provides some comical and emotional scenes. Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox, although a limited role, does inject some sly humour and much needed morals into the story. Finally, Gary Oldman's Lt. James Gordon is riveting. He at least needs a Best Supporting Actor nomination for his performance as another crime-fighting hero who faces some challenging situations.Wally Pfister's cinematography is simply stunning. Gotham has never looked so good, so big and deep. His wide shots purvey a dirty aura and contribute to the feel of the film. Without it, it may not have been the same. Another Oscar worthy portion, THE MUSIC! With Hans Zimmer AND James Newton Howard at the helm, how could it go wrong? The score sets the mood in every scene, giving an epic and thrilling tone. During the action sequences it really ups the adrenaline. And on the topic of action, The Dark Knight succeeds in having the best fight sequences and car chases in a comic book adaptation yet. With no obvious or over-use of CGI, the explosions and accidents are the real deal. Thrilling, edge of your seat and violent, this is brutally awesome stuff.Nevertheless, none of this would be possible without Christopher Nolan, the man behind it all. Pairing up with the writer (and brother) Jonathon Nolan, the darkest Batman movie yet is the best, and the best so far this year. This does not feel like a comic book film, the dialogue and situations feel so realistic. And, it IS the script that drives this film. The dialogue is very, very well written and is the centre of the conflict and the movie.It may be bold to say this, but this is the best superhero film of all time. There are others that are magnificent ("Superman" and "X-Men" are two examples) but this is the most complex, the most dark and the most spectacular and epic of them all. See it for Bale, for Ledger, for the music, the action and for Nolan's flawless direction.5/5 and the best film of 2008 so far!!
__label__10 I thought Batman Begins was a very well conceived and put together  movie. We finally get Batman as a fully rendered character. We gain new  insight into his motivations and the variables he must contend with in  his role as protector of Gotham. We get to see Gary Oldman as an  honest-to-goodness good guy. And we get to see Liam Neeson conducting  perhaps his strangest facial hair experiment yet.  But after seeing The Dark Knight, Batman Begins will forevermore be  viewed (by me at least) as a handy little prologue to a FRICKIN'  MASTERPIECE of a superhero film.  To say it's the deepest mainstream comic adaptation ever produced would  be akin to calling the Nolan/Ledger Joker 'a bit eccentric'.  While watching it, I found myself thinking it was very long, which is  usually a sign that it's TOO long, and therefore boring. But that's not  actually the case here. The script is bulging with ideas, philosophical  musings, THEMES, which Christopher Nolan is not content to gloss over  in favour of cool set-pieces (as many comic adaptations are), but wants  to explore, wants to allow the characters to explore, at a logical  pace. So, what I guess I'm saying is, considering what it sets out to  do, the movie is long ENOUGH, while still constantly holding the  viewer's interest.  And that's not to say the thematic exploration comes at the EXPENSE of  big action, either. On the contrary, there is some truly awesome stuff  going on here. The chase with the truck, for example, is fantastic, and  there's some great hand-to-hand stuff too.  But what engages us most is the characters, and, while the script is  brilliant (the dialogue is sharp, and quite funny for the first  two-thirds, before the drama really kicks in), this mainly comes down  to the cast.  Christian Bale. Taller than Michael Keaton was. More menacing than Val  Kilmer was. Less like Adam West than George Clooney was. Solid and  committed as always. He gives the character LIFE, and actually makes us  feel for him. The word 'tortured' keeps coming to mind...and I suppose  it's pretty appropriate.  Heath Ledger. Y'know, I'd heard talk of an Oscar nomination, and  thought it sounded a bit dubious. A Batman villain? Winning an Oscar?  Is that what it's come to? Then I thought, is it because he didn't get  one for Brokeback? Or more dubious still...is it because he...died?  But...well...how can I put it...?   It seems a bit blasphemous to compare Jack Nicholson to Cesar Romero,  but after seeing Heath at work...Jack (who once seemed so awesome) just  looks...well...lame.  If you've seen it, you hopefully get what I mean. If you haven't...you  need to. You will discover the true definition of commitment.  Maggie Gyllenhaal. I didn't have any problem with Katie in the first  one (at the time), but I doubt she could have pulled off the more  emotional stuff Rachel goes through here. Seeing recasting was  necessary (does Tom have a problem with his wife being involved with  Batman? Too many bad memories perhaps? Why am I even talking about such  garbage here?) they could have done a butt-load worse than Maggie. She  rocks.  As does Aaron Eckhart. But I'm not giving ANYTHING away. Suffice it to  say my mind was blown...AGAIN. Makes Tommy Lee Jones look like...you  get the idea.  Michael Caine. Still one of my favourite actors. Alfred is the shiz.  Morgan Freeman. Morgan Freeman. AOK.  Gary Oldman. As in BB, no mania. No psychosis. No nervous tics.  Absolute subtlety. Manages to hold his own alongside Christian, Heath  and Aaron without resorting to parlour tricks. Sign of spectacular  talent. Go Gaz.  Eric Roberts! William Fichtner! Michael Jai White! Tiny Lister!  The whole thing is just a big bag of thoughtful, well-executed  entertainment. It's equal parts cerebral and visceral. Ideas and  action.  I've liked every Batman movie so far (okay, besides Batman & Robin),  but this one makes them all look pretty bloody ordinary.
__label__10 I had the honor of watching TDK during a screening and was completely blown away! This isn't just the best Batman movie ever made, this is one of the best movie ever made. Everything in this film is excellent, not one piece of annoyance.Bale marvels as Bruce Wayne/Batman, Ledger has made The Joker in to an iconic movie villain. His performance belongs there at the top with Hopkins Lecter. The Joker has finally been portrait properly on film, he has earned his place between the big boys in movie villandom. This is the true Joker every Batman fan knows, loves and fears. Ledger deserves any and every movie award known to man for this brilliant display.Nolan has made his "I will always be remembered" movie, this is the crownjewel in his portfolio. Perfect directing, perfect story, perfect balance between action and drama, everything is perfect. Even if you hate Batman, you will love this film. If you don't, then something beez wrongz with youz!
__label__10 (Synopsis) Bruce Wayne/Batman (Christian Bale) continues to eliminate crime in Gotham City with the help of Lt. Jim Gordon (Gary Oldman) and the new District Attorney, Harvey Dent (Aaron Eckhart). The Dark Knight wants to finally get rid of organized crime for good and be free of their corruption. Batman soon finds that a new psychopathic mastermind known as the Joker (Heath Ledger) has taken over organized crime. The Joker's plan is to terrify the citizens and throw the city into chaos, and kill Batman. Batman takes the fight with the Joker personal, which makes him confront his own beliefs. The Joker is the most dangerous criminal that Batman has encountered, and he will need all his strength and vigilance to defeat him.(My Comment) This film just blew me away. Christian Bale is a natural as Bruce Wayne/Batman, and Michael Caine fits the part of Alfred, the trusted butler. Heath Ledger's performance as the sadistic Joker was absolutely disturbing and scary yet simply amazing. I would not want to meet the Joker in a dark alley, and whatever you do, don't ask him how he got his smile, especially, when he has a knife in his hand. Ledger's performance has turned the Joker into a new iconic movie villain image. Between all the punches, mayhem, and explosions, there is some good sinister dialog. The movie not only has a lot of action, it also tells the story of the internal struggle that Bruce Wayne is having with being the Batman hero. Bruce Wayne wants to be himself and maintain the difference between himself and Batman. Bruce must decide to follow the code or do what has to be done without affecting his own morals. The movie explores the literary themes of Hero verses Villain, as well as Order verses Anarchy, and the Joker explains to Batman that to have one you must have the other, and because of that, they will always be connected. The movie is long, but it went by so fast. You will love the last 45 minutes, because of the non-stop action with Batman in his new sonic suit and his BatPod. With all the explosions, body count, and the dark mood of the movie, I don't think parents should take young children. (Warner Bros. Pictures, Run Time 2:32, Rated PG-13)(10/10)
__label__10 Batman has always been my favourite superhero ever since the first time I heard about him because he his human with no powers, also he is much more questionable than any other superhero. The story of the film is about Batman, Lieutenant James Gordon, and new district attorney Harvey Dent beginning to succeed in rounding up the criminals that plague Gotham City. They are unexpectedly challenged when a mysterious criminal mastermind known as the Joker appears in Gotham. Batman's struggle against the Joker becomes deeply personal, forcing him to "confront everything he believes" and to improve his technology (which introduces the recreation of the Batcycle, known as the Batpod and the Batsuit was redesigned) to stop the madman's campaign of destruction. During the course of the film, a love triangle develops between Bruce Wayne, Dent and Rachel Dawes.There are now six Batman films and I must say that The Dark Knight is the best out of all of them. The title is good because that is what Batman actually is. It has been 3 years for the adventure to continue from Batman Begins but that entire wait was worth it. Gotham city is very Gothic looking and is very haunting and visionary. The whole movie is charged with pulse-pounding suspense, ingenious special effects and riveting performances from a first-rate cast especially from Heath Ledger who gave an Oscar nomination performance for best supporting-actor. It is a shame that he can't see his terrific work on-screen. The cinematography is excellent which is made so dark & sinister that really did suit the mood for the film. Usually sequels don't turn out to be better than the original but The Dark Knight is one of those rare sequels that surpasses the original like The Godfather 2. I also really liked the poster where the building is on fire in a Bat symbol & Batman is standing in front of it. Christopher Nolan is a brilliant director and his film Memento is one of my most favourite films. He hasn't made 10 movies yet and 3 of them are already on the IMDb top 250. Overall The Dark Knight is the kind of movie that will make the audience cheer in the end instead of throwing fruit & vegetables on the screen.
__label__10 Well here it is, one of the most anticipated movies of the year so far. How was it? It was excellent. By far the best Batman film ever made and of course it will be one of the most memorable action films for a long while.Everyone was waiting to see how well Heath Ledger performed as The Joker in this film. He definitely deserves an Oscar in his honor. The character was so dark and creepy that it sent chills up my back. Compared to Heath's other films like '10 Things I Hate About You' and even 'Brokeback Mountain' proves that this man could actually act, doesn't matter what character, he could do it.The film's storyline has many twists and all are rewarding, the story is developed constantly after each scene, making you wonder what's next. Excellent craft and flows well towards the conclusion.During the film on the scene with Batman against the Joker, Bike vs Truck. People thought this was the ending. No, it kept going which was awesome, the story kept getting darker and darker, I guess that's why they called it the 'Dark' Knight as well as the relation to Batman himself.The cast was great. With Christopher Nolan playing Batman, good performance, Heath Ledger played extremely well, Maggie was annoying at times, but still deserves to be praised. Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman had minor roles which satisfied the audiences. Aaron Eckhart starts with a minor role which slowly progresses and becomes evil which is quite surprising and entertaining to watch.Great directing made the movie enjoyable, they added more action this time which made the film feel powerful, lighting was done well especially showing Harvey/ Two Face's face in the many moods he displayed.Great explosions made it entertaining. Made you feel great that this is finally the best action to come in a long time.This movie deserves a 10/10 rating and credit on behalf of the great young actor Heath Ledger's life. (May he R.I.P) His performance made what this film is right now.I recommend this film for any action fan, especially a Batman fan. Or if your even a Heath Ledger fan. Go ahead right now and see this film. It's great!
__label__10 The Dark Knight maintained the intensity and overall gunmetal grayish feel that sets this Batman apart. The film takes us to a Gotham City that has grown accustomed to the big bat's crime-fighting crusades, and the last remaining big time criminals have actually grown fearful of his wrath. They form an alliance to attempt to keep their illicit business activities alive but are feeling even more pressure from yet a different angle: the passionate and fearless new district attorney, Harvey Dent. Recognizing the crime group's looming extinction, a stranger enters their circle and offers what he thinks is the only solution: kill Batman.The bad guys don't know if they can trust this seemingly demented madman, and they later learn the hard way that they don't really have a choice, for the most disturbing part of the Joker's personality is his motive. He doesn't care about money or power. He just enjoys causing trouble and watching, with pleasure, from the sidelines, as the terrorized city scrambles in mayhem...which leads me to the real star of this film, Heath Ledger.Ledger's performance as the Joker is astounding and consuming. We come face-to-face with a villain bearing the coldness of a psychopath and a personality that remains as mysterious and inexplicable as the real reason for the scars on his face. He develops the air of the lone offender quite early on as he nonchalantly kills those who help him commit his crimes. Yet, he has no problem building an army of followers, and the viewers easily find that believable. As insane as he is, he's focused and quite determined. Ledger also brings the Joker's humor to the role, but he does it in a way that is unique to this interpretation...with subtlety and honesty. The very words and mannerisms that made me laugh also evoked feelings of sadness in its clarity. The evil is incredibly convincing.Although Batman is a character that is often marketed towards kids, this film is definitely not appropriate for young children. In addition to the dark images, the violence, both seen and implied, is sometimes unsettling, and Ledger's Joker is chilling even for adult viewers. Having said that, this is, by far, one of the best films I've ever seen, and it will easily find a place in my personal top ten. I am only disappointed that this Joker, the best villain in a film since Hannibal Lecter, will never be revealed to us again.
__label__10 Let's open this review with the fact that Batman is THE BEST superhero ever, with no other even coming close to his levels. So when a sequel is made for an unforgettable movie like "Batman Begins" expectations are EXTREMELY high. I think that if you could describe this movie in a few words it would be "152 minutes of pure awesomeness." Christopher Nolan probably created the best ever comic book adaptation of a movie. The movie itself has been adapted in a much more realistic fashion than the comic book series. First of all this movie is PERFECT for people who like punches, drama, shooting and explosions. The movie has a complicated plot that keeps your eyes glued to the screen. It's anything BUT corny, since a few important characters die, and the ending isn't happy, but it's flawless. Christian Bale has proved himself one again as an amazing actor. Michael Cane (portrays Alfred Pennyworth) makes you fall in love with Batman's loyal butler. Now anyone that has seen the movie and is reading this review is probably wondering why I haven't mentioned the main reason why this movie is flawless. And yes, there is ONE main reason: Heath Ledger. Heath Ledger portrayed Batman's arch nemesis in this movie: the Joker. Now anyone who has a clue in comic books knows that the Joker is INCREDIBLE. Heath Ledger's acting in this movie has turned the Joker into a LEGEND. I have never seen such perfect and realistic acting than the portrayal of the Joker in this movie. The Joker is portrayed in a much more mature fashion than the comic books, and that's why it was so good. It's simply impossible to describe him: he's bold, insane, smart, twisted and he's so awesome in this film that at some points you love him even more than Batman. If I haven't mentioned it by now, this is without a doubt the best movie I have seen.Those who come with high expectations after seeing "Batman Begins" will not be disappointed. I advise that no one under the age of 11 watches this movie as Two-Face's appearance is rather frightening and the film contains intense action.
__label__10 There is just one thing that differentiates a legend from ordinary man. It's his fight with inner demons to over come all his fear. That defines a legend. And this is what Batman stands for. Batman is not just another comic character but it's a complete saga of how you stand tall in spite of losing everything, walk fearlessly even when you are lonely and how you fight back against all odds and over shadow your own fear. Fear- the most dominated emotion, mankind has ever witnessed. Batman is no exception, he still has fear, he still gets scared of losing those who are close to him and he is still in doubts when it comes to decision. But what is interesting and inspirational about Batman is that he has the ability to use wisely the biggest and most dangerous weapons of all time perfectly- BRAIN! That's why he is my favourite comic character and this time, Batman is putting everything on the line to save the world from out of control freak- the Joker.A spell bounded performance by Heath Ledger as the Joker. Though, he is no more with us but his immortal act as joker is an Oscar winning performance and will always be remembered. Your heart comes out to mouth to see the horror Joker creates. In start, I was bit confused as his performance reminded me of Jack Nicholson from the first Batman movie but later, I realised that this is for real. He did not imitate Jack but showcased the true and horrible side of a real joker. The best part about Heath is that he displayed the flip side of a joker- FEARLESS. There are many times when we feel that some one could have done better with certain roles but not here. Here, Heath is perfect as a joker and from now on, I will call him Heath 'Joker' Ledger!The story is about a terror that has shaken the underworld of Gotham. The fear of Batman is getting in to criminal minds and all of them are now thinking where their money can be saved from Batman's reach. And that's where the Joker comes with a plan to these criminals- kill Batman. Now with his perverted mind, the Joker is behind Batman's life and what follows is a scary hell of a ride of hide n seek game of faith vs. courage. At one end, Joker has no fear and on the other, Batman has a responsibility of saving Gotham. Now the important question is that who will win and more than that at what cost?Apart from breaking box office records, this movie is also able to break the pattern of film making. Batman series is an action series. When you make an action movie you give the required pace in a movie by focusing on elaborating the action scenes but here, the director builds the movie with a mix of action as well as other emotional scenes. Step by step movie gives its audience action and emotion at the time when it's required but with an unexpected style. Dark, intense and a complete Batman style. The Batman movies are famous for its back ground music and The Dark Knight is no exception. Specially, when there is sound of a whistle in background of some intense scenes in the movie. I felt a rush in to my blood and boiling my brain. My eyes popped out while watching those scenes. To mention, Batman's grilling session with the Joker is a masterpiece. The scene was simply awesome mainly coz of background music. Harvey Dent's character could have been better post he becomes 2-faced. I was expecting his character to be more involved and longer in the series. Rachel Dawes is also a very strong influencing character in the movie. Her involvement in the movie is much focused than Katie Holmes in Batman Begins but the point I'm making here is the glam factor in this movie. She was not given that much footage in a glamorous way. Nevertheless, the plot did not allow audience to think that way either. Action scenes in this movie are well thought of and will chill the audiences' spinal chords. My favourite is the chase scene where Joker is trying best to catch Harvey Dent and how Batman comes in between. This is where Batman says 'asta la vista' and welcomes his new girl friend- his damn new bike! It's called Batpod! I can imagine how excited you will be when you know that Batman is now going to catch the Joker and Joker is happy that Batman has missed his shot. This is sheer delight to watch the creative involvement of special effects blended with brilliant cinematography. Unlike other Hollywood flicks, The Dark Knight is a lengthy movie of more than 2 ½ hrs of non-stop adrenaline but you won't mind spending that much time watching it. Many times we feel that some movies could've been shorter and some lengthier but with 'The Dark Knight' that's not the case. It's mainly because the movie ends up at the time when it is required to scroll the curtains down. I was so satisfied while coming out from the movie hall. Perfect ending!Well, The Dark Knight is just a beginning. Now I'm expecting the Penguin and the Riddler to come in to the picture and take this battle ahead. As I said earlier, I'm a big fan of Batman and after this movie, I'm mad about not just Batman, but each and every part of his movies, music and, The Joker!. Now, while I'm rushing straight to the nearest movie store to buy all original movies and soundtracks of Batman series, you go ahead and enjoy a fearless life just like the Joker or Batman- choice is yours!
__label__10 Lets begin by stating that this movie should only be watched in IMAX. If you are a big Batman fanatic, spend a couple extra dollars and you'll get your money's worth. This is the best movie of 2008, no other film will come close.Christopher Nolan has made his masterpiece, with the help of his brother Jonathan creating the script. The perfect balance between superhero action and drama can be found here in The Dark Knight. The acting is top-notch. Not a single actor in this movie comes up short. Christian Bale portrays Batman better than he did in its predecessor. Aaron Eckhart impresses with his take of Harvey Dent. Maggie does a fantastic job playing the role of Rachel Dawes. Heath Ledger is Oscar worthy in his attempt at the infamous Batman rival, The Joker. Ledger's performance is just absolutely stunning. No words can describe how much he attracts the viewer and shines on the big screen.There is no reason why anyone should say this movie was bad. Those who gave this movie a poor rating should be ashamed of themselves for their lack of intelligence. Yes I said. LACK OF INTELLIGENGE! Even if your not a Batman fanatic, this film has a meaning and purpose. It will give you excitement and also something to ponder about for the rest of the day, night, morning, etc. No spoilers but its lengthy running time of 152 minutes beats the hell out of any other superhero comic book adaptation previously made and for years to come. Ledger's stunning acting portrayal of the Joker is good enough for you to spend the money. Do not wait for it to come out on DVD, WATCH IT IN IMAX!
__label__10 I just saw The Dark Knight and it was even better than I expected and I expected it to be great. Most of this comment is about Heath Ledger so let me start by giving Christian Bale and the rest of the awesome cast, director,make-up,special effects team, writers, producers, and so on a huge thank you for doing such an amazing job in, and on this movie.Now for Ledger. People can say what they want about Heath getting too much praise just because he is no longer with us cause it just isn't true. Alive or gone, this was the performance of a lifetime. The make-up, the laugh, the mannerisms, every little thing he did was perfect. I have always had an image in my mind of how the joker was and this was finally it. I love Jack Nicholson because he is one of the best actors alive, but I am sorry Jack because Heath Ledger just out shined you and that is not easy to do.I was praying the entire movie that the joker would not be killed because it would have just been too symbolic and I would have lost it. I did cry at the end though. The ending when two face, the commissioner and batman are talking about life and death and how unfair and too soon it can be it really struck home and paralleled Heath Ledger's untimely passing.It is completely unfair that Heath's family and the world are going to miss out on such an amazing person with some of the rarest and rawest talent I have ever seen. I am a single mother and I can't even begin to imagine losing my daughter, so my heart goes out to Heath's family and his daughter. I am truly sorry that such an amazing man died so young.Dahr Prince
__label__10 I was lucky enough to get a ticket to a special pre-release screening of Up at Pixar studios in Emeryville, organized by the San Francisco Film Society. After a hour-long reception in the atrium of their beautiful main building we went through some rigorous security (metal detectors!) and were treated to an hilarious short (Partly Cloudy) and Pixar's new high water mark, Up.My favorites to date have definitely been Wall-E and the Incredibles, and Up is another slightly-left-of-center masterpiece. The emotional impact of the beautiful, wordless summation of Carl's life that opens the movie is the bass note that resonates through the whole film and is at least as affecting as the scene in Wall-E when he holds his own hands while watching Hello Dolly. The rest of the movie, of course, is breathtaking on just about every level, especially the tactile quality of all the characters and textures and the completely realized weather effects and action scenes. With no "new" technical milestones (fur in Monsters, Inc., water in Finding Nemo, realistic camera effects in Wall- E), the design is the main focus, from the hilariously stylized characters to the amazing setting of the tepui.As the associate producer who participated in the Q&A following the movie pointed out, the past three Pixar movies have not been easy sells to their parent company Disney (they'll be back in familiar territory with Toy Story 3 and Cars 2), but Pixar's commitment to inventive, story-driven films continues to pay off here. All of the good press is true, and I can't wait to see it again. Thanks for staying true to yourselves Pixar!
__label__10 Carl Frederickson (Ed Asner) has lived a long life, but dreams of adventuring to South America. He wants to spend his remaining days in his home, but new high-rises are being constructed around it. After a chance accident, Carl loses his home, and is set to be taken into a retirement home. Unhappy with this idea, the former balloon salesman ties thousands of balloons to his house and simply floats away, en route to his dream adventure. Except, he is not alone – young "wilderness explorer" Russell (Jordan Nagai) inadvertently shows up in mid-air, and Carl sees no other choice but to bring the boy with him.The fact that this plot line is even relevant enough to get made into a movie is more than enough reason to praise Up. Ever since Toy Story, Pixar has consistently delivered the most radically original and unique ideas for animated films, and live action films. Sure, not all of them are as amazing as others (Cars is quite simply stale compared to the likes of Ratatouille and WALL-E), but there is something brilliantly imaginative and exciting going on at the studio, and Up is no exception.Coming off the breakthrough of WALL-E, I was not expecting the same reaction to Up, but I was more than just pleasantly surprised. The film is hilarious, heartfelt, moving and depressing all at once. This may sound like it is an issue, and that the film has a problem holding its ground with its tonal structure. But instead, it handles it quite well; splitting the film into quadrants and allowing the themes and plot line to coincide with whatever emotional response the filmmakers are going for. And while there is plenty for young children to enjoy and take from the film, it is the older audience that will get the biggest reaction from it. There is a lot going on in the film, but it never loses its speed and never loses control of what it wants to say and do. It knows exactly where it wants to be and when. And where other recent Pixar films have failed (specifically in their lengthy runtimes and frequent need to drag themselves out), Up does not. It practically blasts its way through its beginning, all the way up to its ending, with time left to spare.What makes Up work so well, much like WALL-E before it, is the focus on very few characters. Where WALL-E spent the majority of its runtime primarily on Earth with its main character, a love interest and a cockroach, Up spends its majority with Carl, Russell, a "bird" named Kevin and a talking dog named Dug (voiced by co-director Bob Peterson). It does allow for more characters to enter in later on, but the focus never strays from these main characters. Some may say the film is trying to tell multiple stories, but as the film progresses, it is clear it is telling one story – the tale of a man who never experienced what he wanted the most. The film builds up Carl's backstory heavily in startlingly moving moments that surprisingly were surprisingly kept rather secretive in the marketing for the film. We know from the very first trailer that Carl is a fairly mean old man, but the film spends a great deal of time to develop him into an emotional wreck of a man.But the real success of the film is in its imagination and adventure. While WALL-E is perhaps the most startlingly unique and original animated picture of the last decade, Up still manages to pack in a lot of uniqueness. But while WALL-E got caught up in its own environmentally sound message, Up sticks with being an almost straight adventure picture. It is frequently thrilling and exciting, and lets up only for a few moments at a time. For such an older character, the film really stuns with some of its fantastical ideas. Sure, it is obvious this is a film that could only ever be done as an animated film, but what it lacks in realism it makes up for in fun – something that has been sorely missing from the movies for years. It came back for a short while with the first Pirates of the Caribbean film, but the focus as of late for any film has been on deeply conflicted, depressing narratives. And while this film is struck with having some of the most depressing scenes the year has seen so far, it never wallows in the sadness. It throws the moments at you, and then quickly moves on. And as said previously, the tonal shifts work excellently in Up's favour.But of course, an animated movie cannot work without its animation. While Up is not a breakthrough in the way other Pixar films have been, it keeps with the tradition of still looking stunning and leading the curve for computer animated films. It does look cartoony and fantastical in many instances, but this only continues to work towards it being even better. The locales are realistic looking; the dog fur is near perfect. For me, watching Carl's facial hair gradually grow in as the story moves along was simply amazing. The little details and minute perfections have always been key to the Pixar films, and Up is no different. Additionally, the 3D effects really add a layer to the film, and bring the movie to life (unlike other recent efforts like Monsters vs. Aliens and Bolt).I cannot praise Up enough. Words cannot do justice for how excellent the film is. Pixar continues to outdo itself year after year, even with their subpar films. While each film has their own flaws, Up revels in being as close to perfect as the company has been in years. I adored every minute, and look forward to watching it again with an even bigger smile on my face.10/10.
__label__10 UP, Pixar's latest animated feature, is just delightful. But how do you go about extolling the movie's virtues without giving away its surprises? Like the kid at the beginning of the movie, you don't try to conquer the immovable force; you work around it.The one clue I can give away – because it's the movie's heavily hyped premise – is that Carl Fredrickson, a gruffy old widower (voiced with gruffy old charm by Ed Asner), miraculously inflates enough balloons to use his house as an aircraft. Soon, he finds himself reluctantly sharing his ride with a short-attention-spanned kid named Russell.I'll also mention a couple of other items that can gauge your potential interest in the movie. One is a gag that is a take-off on a famous painting – perhaps too inside of an inside joke, but typical of Pixar's cheery attempts to appeal to viewers of all ages.Also, part of the plot involves Carl's long-held wish to meet a Lindbergh-type adventurer named Charles Muntz (Christopher Plummer!). This is another in-joke that's even vaguer than the first one. Cartoon historians know that Walt Disney started in the cartoon biz by creating Oswald the Rabbit for producer Charles Mintz, who then greedily stole the rights to Disney's creation. This gives you a pretty good idea where the ostensible hero Muntz stands in the scheme of things.Beyond that, I can only offer you some enticing clues about the characters. There's a dog who's the leader of his pack and in menacing beyond measure, until he opens his mouth and gets one of the movie's biggest laughs. There's a huge, awkward bird that is a big laugh-getter at first. Then she becomes a real enough character that – at least in the audience I was in – when she's injured, she elicits screams of fright worthy of Bambi's late mother.There's surprising, heartfelt emotion, vivid imagery (you can almost touch the landscapes and skies), and a music score by Michael Giacchino that's practically a character in the movie – particularly in a thoughtful montage that takes Carl from childhood to widowhood.There aren't many (or at least not enough) live-action movies that are engrossing as this cartoon. Pixar Studios has gotten to be one of those movie icons that shouldn't even have to deliver a premise to get funded anymore. The moneymen should just shut up, hand over the money, and trust they'll get a product that will appeal to everyone.UP is only the second Pixar feature to get a PG rating, only for mildly intense imagery and action – nothing off-color in the least. Again, if you can handle "Bambi," this film should be a breeze.
__label__10 I was luckily able to catch a screening a few weeks ago here in Houston.As an avid lover of Wall-E, I felt Pixar could never reach those heights again.I was wrong.UP's story will probably seem peculiar at first glance. An old man as a protagonist? It definitely blew my expectations. The first 5 minutes demolished every other Pixar feature just because it was the first time I cried in a theater.This just shows how much heart there is to the movie. I really don't want to get into specifics because of spoilers but the movie literally has everything.Amazing visual effects.Amazing sound.Hilarious comedy.Breath taking action.Heart.All those combined equal something special. Today's movies like to blow you away with gimmicks, Pixar is different. Each movie shows soul and UP definitely has it.I can't wait until it comes out so I can see it in 3d, im bringing everybody.10/10
__label__10 Honestly, I found the DVD of this film in my house and decided to give it a watch as I had nothing better to do. Truth is I really should have made the time before.Although I enjoy all the other Disney/pixar movies, I am at that teenage age where I mainly seek Violence, sex and gore. Thankfully my teenage boredom did me a big favour in helping what this fantastic masterpiece. This film was so fantastically deep, meaningful and moving beyond relief, as soon as I switched it off I rang my grandparents to tell them I love them.It should be made necessary that everyone everywhere should see this film and I think the world would be a much better place - it really is that good.100/10
__label__10 Seriously, I'm convinced, Pixar is maybe the only movie studio that is providing the best movies around. Who said that animated films can't be considered real movies? Can't be considered an art form? Up is the latest creation from Disney and Pixar, after last year's smash hit WALL-E, I felt like they couldn't at all top themselves and they did it again with this incredibly charming story. Admittingly from the trailer, I wasn't sure this story was going to work as well, but I got the opportunity to see Up this week and was just totally blown away by it's story, animation and characters. The thing I adore about these movies that Disney and Pixar are creating is that they're not just for the kids, but the adults as well, this is something that I could even see an adult seeing by themselves. This story doesn't insult kid's intelligence and is extremely entertaining for anyone to enjoy, to go through this adventure with an old man who just wanted to make his wife happy.Carl Fredricksen, a quiet young boy, meets Ellie in her clubhouse, discovering together they share the same interest in exploration as their hero, famed explorer Charles F. Muntz. Ellie expresses her desire to move her clubhouse to Paradise Falls in South America, a promise she makes Carl keep. Carl and Ellie fall in love, wed and grow old together in the old house where they first met. Ellie dies of old age before they can take their trip, leaving Carl living alone in their home. After a tussle with a construction worker over Carl's broken mailbox, the court orders Carl to move into a retirement home. Carl comes up with a scheme to keep his promise to Ellie, and creates a makeshift airship using thousands of helium balloons which lift his house off its foundation. Russell, a Wilderness Explorer trying to earn his "Assisting the Elderly" badge, has stowed away on the porch after being sent on a snipe hunt by Carl the day before. After a storm throws them around for a while, they find themselves across a large ravine facing Paradise Falls. With their body weight providing ballast allowing Carl and Russell to pull the floating house, the two begin to walk around the ravine. As they walk towards Paradise Falls, Russell finds a colorful tropical bird which he names Kevin, not realizing that the bird is actually female. They later run into a dog with a translating collar named Dug. They discover Dug's owner is Charles Muntz, who has remained in South America for several decades to find a bird like Kevin in order to restore his reputation after bringing back a skeleton and being called a fraud. Though Carl is initially thrilled to meet his hero, when he realizes that Muntz is after Kevin and will kill to obtain her, Carl takes steps to save the bird and escape from Muntz.Up is seriously the best movie I have seen so far this year, it's actually one of my favorite movies of all time, I can't tell you how much I enjoyed this film. Wither it was the fun and charming story between Carl and Russell, the crazy bird Kevin, or the story that nearly killed me in laughter, the dogs that have collars that make them talk. I don't remember the last time a movie that made me laugh so hard that my stomach hurt, it also made me tear up and smile. If someone ever tells you that an animated film can't be considered a real movie, just show them Up. I absolutely adore this movie, can't wait for it to come out on DVD and watch it again. This is a perfect family film, actually scratch that, it's a perfect film, the animation is incredible, the characters are lovable and the story is magical. Up is going to be a film to be remembered for all time, great movie, go see it.10/10
__label__10 What can I say about Pixar? Amazing?? Perfect?? Got to see this at the Cannes Film Festival in France (went on a trip with my family) and Pixar gives us another instant classic: Up.The movie focuses on 78-year old man Carl Fredrickson's (voiced by Edward Asner) life who always had a dream of going on a journey to South American to see the wilds of it. He buys thousands of balloons just to attach it to his house to float up in the sky. So, he starts with his journey up in the sky in his house with balloons attached to it. Suddenly, he's not alone and somebody's at the door while flying, it's a boy scout kid named Russell. He invites the boy with him on his journey to South America.Just brilliant and simple story-telling, beautiful visuals as usual with Pixar, awesome voice work, funny and smart dialogue, beautiful score once again by Michael Giacchino & very, very enjoyable characters. Speaking of characters, the highlight of the film: Dug the Dog. A sort of "robot" dog that will have you have you in a lot of stitches each scene that dog is in and that was the case with me. Simply, one of the funniest characters Pixar ever made. Pete Doctor, one of the four Pixar directors (John Lassester, Andrew Stanton, Brad Bird) who directed Monster's Inc (2001) needs and should get nominated for his clever, genius and smart directing of this but if Stanton didn't get the nods for (Finding Nemo and WALL-E) and Bird for (The Incredibles & Ratatouille) which they should of been, then the Oscars are making another HUGE mistake for not nominating this guy for this movie.Up is the funniest Pixar movie, funnier than the Toy Story movies, A Bug's Life & Finding Nemo which were the funniest, in my opinion. The movie is not just hilarious, it's emotional and sad at times. Like WALL-E, it focuses on the character feelings but not as magical as WALL-E. Still, Up is full of emotional, fun and hilarious proportions. Your in for a BIG ride in this!! 10/10.
__label__10 Pixar has become the most dependable studio out there for producing reliable films that don't simply continue to raise the bar in animation but set a level of excellence in storytelling that puts most live-action movies to shame. 'Up' represents another change in style, as significant as Wall-E's shift to photorealism, intricate camera effects and darker themes. It effectively blends moments of tragedy with almost slapstick humor, while showing that their understanding of story structure and pacing gets more refined with every release.Up is about a 70-something ex-balloon salesman who fulfills a lifelong dream of adventure by tying thousands of balloons to his house and flying away to South America. This trip, inspired by his adventure- loving wife who dies before their dream is realized, is forced when property developers attempt a compulsory purchase on his house and try to move him to a retirement home (issues of death and eminent domain in a cartoon?). The problem is that he has an enthusiastic - and fatherless - 8-year old Wildness Explorer stowed away on the property when it takes off. Their adventure focuses on the characters they meet along the way, while our hero Carl is still trying to drag his house to the dream destination at the top of a waterfall.The opening shows the life of Carl, growing from an young boy, meeting his adventuring-loving girlfriend, their marriage and her death just before their adventure starts - it's an incredibly emotional 5-minute intro that's light on dialog and heavy on visuals, and didn't leave a dry eye in the theater. This sequence in particular was reminiscent of the dialog-free sections of Wall-E which deliver their plot punches without exposition or the need for endless sequences that would take twice as long in live action. But this approach doesn't leave the younger audience behind either, and for such a dark start, all I could see in the audience were kids and adults alike glued to the screen.I won't give away any more plot details since the film doesn't open for another three weeks, but every scene and character trait is meticulously plotted so that nothing seems too ridiculous or contrived, even for such a fantastic journey. The graphic stylization is also fresh, in the same way that The Incredibles had a very distinct and authentic look. All of this serves to heighten the humor and there are some extremely funny scenes, helped by the way the characters are quickly and believably established (even the talking dogs, but you'll see what I mean).This is the second time I've been to Pixar to see a pre-release of a movie and I felt a little scared before seeing this one, wondering if their run of first-class work may have hit a plateau. On the surface, I didn't really think a story about a senior in a flying house could live up to Wall-E, yet although the films are as different as they can be, Up is as gripping and entertaining as any Pixar film. Their ability to blends styles and take the audience from laughter to tears in minutes showcases their deep understanding of story, and it's a shame that more films aren't crafted the same way.Up opens on May 29, and I highly recommend it to everyone. The next two films out of Pixar will be Toy Story 3 (2010) and Cars 2 (2011). By the way, look at for a very funny short film before Up called Partly Cloudly.
__label__10 Sadly, there aren't enough superlatives in the English language with which to laud Up, the latest offering from the folks at Disney/Pixar. This is quite simply the best movie of any genre to emerge thus far this year. No small praise considering how I've long been adverse to "kids movies", pegging them as being shallow, vapid, and simplistic - a personal preconception which Pixar mercifully shattered with 2004's The Incredibles and 2008's WALL-E, which proved beyond a shadow of a doubt that for all their acclaim as an animation studio, they are equally brilliant story tellers Up tells the story of Carl Fredricksen (voiced by Ed Asner), who as a child meets Ellie, later to become the love of his life. Carl and Ellie find they share a common dream – to one day visit Paradise Falls, a mysterious tropical oasis in South America made famous in vintage newsreels chronicling the exploits of explorer/adventurer Charles Muntz (Christopher Plummer). Life, however, manages to get in the way as the two grow up, get married, experience the pain of miscarriage, and eventually grow old, so much so that father time catches up on Ellie, leaving Carl a widower. All of this is conveyed with little dialog in a masterful sequence that had the audience, old and young alike, sniffling throughout.If you're thinking this isn't the usual stuff you see in "kids movies" you're right. But all credit is due to Pixar and the directorial and writing team of Pete Docter and Bob Peterson for realizing that children aren't idiots, and can handle complex, often tragic stories, if conveyed in the proper manner. It's a refreshing change from the over-protective mentality that once saw all hints of violence edited out of Warner Bros/Looney Tunes cartoons.In Up, characters bleed, there's implied murder, and it's all counter-balanced with some of the most delightfully twisted humor that's as inspired as anything the Zucker brothers ever came up with. The story literally had me careening from being misty-eyed to laughing heartily, frequently in the span of minutes.Faced with forced relocation to a retirement home, Carl opts for one final gambit, to fly his house down to Paradise Falls with the aid of a multitude of helium-filled balloons affixed to the roof of his house. Along for the ride is Russell (Jordan Nagai), a Wilderness Scout seeking to add a merit badge to his collection. Eventually the duo are complimented by Dug (voiced by co-director and writer Bob Peterson) a dopey derelict dog equipped by the now aged Muntz with a translator collar that converts dog thoughts to English.Like WALL-E, Up manages to imbue its characters with depth and humanity, while at the same time tell a story that is mature, delightful, and most of all, terrifically funny. In an era when Hollywood seems only capable of re-boots and do-overs, Up is not merely a refreshing stroke of original brilliance, it is likely the best movie you will see all year.... or until Pixar emerges with their next effort.
__label__10 Up is wonderful and well written story that is very well animated for its time. It stands out from other movies not only due to its animation technology but through the uses of character archetypes. Along some ingenious planning throughout the movie which will certainly grip you on your seat for the whole time. Each part of the story fits together seamlessly and as directed by Pete Docter who has shown potential in the past with Monster.Inc. It is no surprise that Up would not have been better. Easter Eggs are bound to be found as this is just another part of the Pixar and Disney family. It ended very gracefully with a happy ending for the two main and primary characters that lies within the movie. I am very glad that I had spent my time and money to watch this exquisite animation. It is well made and deserves to be recommended if you are seeking the adventure that lies beyond the unreachable.
__label__10 As I am much more hesitant to give a movie a score of 10 than most reviewers, take my score of 9 as a ringing endorsement for this sweet CGI film from Pixar. In addition, the film is the first 3-D film by the studio and it looked lovely.The film begins with a sweet but VERY emotionally draining prologue. You see Carl Fredricksen as a very young boy along with his first two loves--the adventures of the explorer, Charles Muntz, and his meeting and falling in love with Ellie. All this is done with a minimum of dialog and it is one of the sweetest segments I've seen in years--and is a first for something this deep and emotional from a computer generated film. Keep a few Kleenex nearby--you'll likely need it.Then, the film jumps ahead to the present day. Carl is now elderly and alone. His life is quite sad and he dwells on the recent loss of Ellie. Fortunately, the film doesn't dwell on this too long or become maudlin--though it did come a bit close at times. Now, with nothing in his life other than memories AND the court pushing him into a retirement home against his will, Carl comes up with a crazy plan--to float his home away with a bazillion balloons and take it to South America!! Unfortunately, while the plan works, Carl also gets an unwelcome passenger (Russell). Now Russell is an absolutely adorable character--wonderfully rendered and with a fittingly cute voice. You cannot help but love him. But, since Carl is alone and childless and grumpy, he is less than enthralled with this hitchhiker.Eventually, they arrive in South America and meet some new friends--a bizarre giant bird and Dug, the dog. But, being a family film, you KNOW that there must be some villain and sure enough, along comes a very, very, very elderly Muntz who seems a tad..."touched". This sets off some very hair-raising adventures and you'll just need to tune it to see what happens next.Technically speaking, this film was incredible and shows that the same old software is NOT being used but a newer generation with greater clarity and richness. I loved how through the course of the film, for instance, Carl's beard stubble starts to slowly grow in as well as the lovely shading and colors. While I loved RATATOUILLE and WALL-E for their animation, this looked a lot better--plus came in 3-D. I just saw Dreamworks' latest film the week before (MONSTERS VS. ALIENS) and frankly UP looked immensely better--there was just no comparison.As for the story, it was highly imaginative and strange--in a good way. I can only think of one other film that is like UP at all, and that is the wonderful French live action film, LE PAPILLON. It, too, is about an elderly single man who has an adorable child dumped in his lap and like UP, by the end of the film the old man has essentially been adopted by the kid. Both are rather predictable in that sense, but both also make it work due to brilliant writing, adorable kids and plot elements that are very unique and magical. Heck, in UP, the many dogs in the film can talk AND are excellent chefs--where have you ever seen that before?! Overall, it's a great film for almost all ages. I did notice in the theater that one kid (about 4) got very, very, very upset when the cute bird was captured--and he screamed and cried for some time. Keep this in mind if you do take young kids to see it--it may elicit come tears though there is no dirty language and the violence is mostly mild. For Pixar, this is among their best.
__label__10 Rest assured, Iron Man is an absolutely amazing movie. I won't dare spoil any of this remarkable movie for you but I do recommend it as highly as I possibly can. Marvel needed to get in to the solo movie making business long ago. Instead of leasing out their characters to other studios, they're making movies themselves. Most everyone knows Iron Man is their first effort and what a great lead off film! This movie helps take the comic book genre to the highest level. Just like they did in the books, they reinvent standard epic adventure by "Marvelizing" characters and making them more believable. The Spider-Man and the X-Men movies did this to a degree but only as far as their respective studios wished to stay true to the source material. Anything added or amended was for the benefit of the live action adaptation. Director Sam Raimi pulled this off by talking to the summer crowd, not down to them with the Spider-Man series. Jon Favreau has done the same thing here but I think he's done it even better. Raimi intentionally threw in a little cheese. Favreau adds nice bits of humor but not too much. He also grounds the action and the suit of armor in firm reality. I've said it before but it's brave to reach for the highest common denominator with a big budget film and Favreau delivers a movie with as much feeling as it has action and intensity. Needless to say, Robert Downey Jr. and company deliver the goods. It's a movie that has a wonderful balance that delivers intelligence with its fun.The amazing yet realistic action is paced by the plot and characters that keep you interested from start to finish. What absolutely blew me away were the phenomenal special effects. I know they built a practical, working armor. What I loved is the use of CGI was used to augment the real life armor and not create something from scratch. Most all CGI constructs feel fake somehow but the stuff in Iron Man didn't seem fake even for an instant. As great as everything looked, what really drives the movie is the emotional resonance and down to earth nature of the plot. Sure the concept is wild but it's all presented so that you really believe it could happen. I doubt anyone will find fault with this movie unless they went in trying to dislike it.This is, without a doubt going to be one of my top 10 movies of 2008, quite possibly the number one film.
__label__10 As an avid reader of the Iron Man comics, I was excited but also very scared that this movie would flop.While Robert Downey is not the biggest name in Hollywood, he plays the part perfectly and I was greatly impressed by how he portrayed Iron Man so well.The humor works well for this film also. It's well-written and has a great cast.What impressed me the most was the CGI! They're breath-taking, but aren't distracting enough to let you miss the finer points of this movie.In conclusion, while not perfect, Iron Man lives up to its hype and my expectations as a reader of the comic.
__label__10 WOW WOW WOW.This is the movie I have been waiting for for a very long time. I am an avid Ironman reader. I have collected the comics all my life (from #1 in 1968 to the latest in 2008)...40 years of Ironman. Since I was a kid, I used to say to my friends that they should make an Ironman movie, but everyone laughed and said that the special effects would look ridiculous...mind you, that was back in like in the early 1980's. But, now we are in the age of CGI, and what an age it is. Just for you Ironman fans, to see him come to life with such spectacular graphics is reason enough to spend your hard-earned $10. The plot is also pretty well thought out, and the acting is just fine. What better pick could you have for Tony Stark than Robert Downey Jr.? (just wait for the sequels when they can delve into his alcoholism...Mr. Downey has been there and beyond...that's probably why they chose him for the role...fore-thought)The rest of the cast is right on par, as well. The pace is brisk, and the whole thing works as a great addition to the Marvel Universe in the Cinema!! Enjoy!
__label__10 With a little tinge of shame and regret, my rare dalliances with the Iron Man character stemmed from a few one off comic books, as well as occasions during the teenage years of spending time in the arcade with those Marvel games, where Iron Man was one of my preferred characters because it came together with his incredible arsenal of weapons from repulsor beams to this gigantic cannon which accompanied the execution of some complex combo moves. There's something sexy about the red and gold suit of armour, and having an array of weapons at the disposal of a player, makes perfect sense for variety in dispatching your enemies.This may irk the fervent fans of Iron Man, but face it, the superhero belonged to Tier B where superheroes are concerned, languishing behind easily recognizable peers who already have movie after movie being made. But thanks to the advancement in digital technology, bringing Iron Man to life no longer consisted of the prospect and worrying thought of having a man running about in a rubber suit passing it off as metal, the way Ultraman would have been done, complete with mechanical clicks and whirrs as sound effects to try and fool the visual sensory. Here, we have a very detailed rendering of the entire design from scratch to final modification, and we're in at every step of the way, with many cheeky and sometimes a tad implausible scenes just for cheap laughs thrown in.I thought Iron Man the story worked because of stark (pardon the pun) similarities with Batman Begins, also an origin story which took its time to dwell on the man behind the suit, nevermind at the sacrifice of having less action sequences, or by not giving the fans what they want through the showcase of more than the basic powers. Advanced capabilities can always find room in the sequel, and as the first movie used to establish its characters, I felt that it succeeded, given too that it had a cast of capables (just like Batman Begins had) to pull the movie through without resorting to over the top and campy performances, starting of course with the lead in Robert Downey Jr.In a nutshell, Downey is Tony Stark through and through. His affinity for the character shines, and no doubt it bore some parallels between his own personal, and Stark's life in the narrative future when he hits the bottle. He was allowed to become a Two-Face of sorts, on one hand being and later acting out his flamboyance self whose mission in life was the continuation of his father's legacy of Stark Industries, a weapons conglomerate, versus his personal mission in ridding his own weapons from the hands of the bad guys, now updated to be freedom fighters in the Middle East. The dialogue contained within each scene of Stark's, except perhaps during captivity, is full of one-liners done in double quick time, you probably would think it boiled down to a whole host of natural ad-libbing.But while Starks spends significant amount of time in his unsecured basement building his masterpiece, his human interaction come in the form of faithful secretary Pepper Potts (Gwyneth Paltrow) who actually, for the first time I admit, looked really good on screen as Stark's most trusted aide, bringing about some serious spark of sexual tension and chemistry between the two characters of opposite sex, more so than any other comic book movie I have seen. And good friend from the air force Jim Rhodes (Terrence Howard) complete the circle of trust who knows of Stark's secret identity, and you'd be keeping your fingers crossed at the toss of a teaser of a certain War Machine appearance should the sequel be out. Who's the main villain in the movie? It points the finger at Corporations, or at least here, the weapons manufacturers and the shady deals that go through in the name of profit, the sole objective for any corporation's existence. And Jeff Bridges, in a rare villainous role, got to personify that greed and wrestle for absolute power just like the trailer already suggested. While his performance is refreshing as he disappears behind the ball head and bushy beard, you could see his motivation and how the plot would have been developed to introduced the ultimate fodder for Iron Man to duke it out in a, sad to say, ordinary finale which any audience would probably be able to stay a step ahead.As mentioned earlier, there are plenty of similarities with the Dark Knight of Gotham in Christopher Nolan's reboot, but more so because of properties inherent with the likeness between Bruce Wayne and Tony Stark. Both are incredibly wealthy to devote time outside of the day job to pursue their "hobby", both have to suffer personal tragedies in order to wake up to the cruel world, and in the movie, both fall prey to the corporate raider type, spend time perfecting their suit of war, have assistants they would trust their lives with, and of course save them from impending doom, and a finales set at their facilities.But Iron Man is still a special effects extravaganza offering a thrill ride especially when he goes into battle mode, and without a doubt, Robert Downey Jr probably should be credited for raising the profile of this once Tier-B character, to perhaps becoming more recognizable now, and obviously, expanding the fan base of this weaponry filled suit of metal, which of course, in this origin movie, we were only given a glimpse of its potential. can everyone now spell sequel and clamour for more please? Iron Man has set the bar for the other upcoming comic book movies to try and surpass this summer season!
__label__10 I was hyped for the movie when it was on the internet as news. I wasn't the biggest fan of Iron-Man at the time, but I always liked Robert Downey Jr., because he's a phenomenal actor. Not only that, but having Jon Favreau on board made me want to watch this film even more. He's a great comedic actor, and would seem like a cool buddy to hang out with.So I went in there with high expectations and I came out very satisfied at what I just had seen. I couldn't think of anyone else who could play Iron-Man better than Robert Downey. Thanks to this film, I put Iron-Man at the second spot in my favorite super-hero list. Blade comes first.Of course I bought the blu-ray version of the movie, watched all the special features and it was great. The action was great, it was planned out where it was needed. Jeff Bridges also did a great job on his character, acting as a mentor and then as Iron-Man's enemy. He didn't like to put up with the selfish rich guy, I get it, no one likes that.Overall, a 10/10 for creativity. Now, I'm anxious for the sequel, and you know what they say about sequels, they're always the best ones in the series.
__label__10 Iron Man is one of the better superhero movies. It's based off the popular Marvel comics. On one of the reviews, I was shocked to see that the person liked the new Hulk better. I agree that Hulk is a great movie, but Iron Man is 100 times better. Tony Stark, a popular weapons company owner gets kidnapped by a cult called "Ten Rings" in the Middle East. They want Stark to build a weapon for them. Instead he builds his Iron Man suit. He eventually escapes and later becomes Iron Man. Will he have revenge on the cult and it's surprising leader? You'll have to watch to find out. The acting is better than expected in this film. Robert Downey Jr. did such a unexpected great job. Gwyneth Paltrow did well as her role of Pepper Potts. I also liked Terrence Howard as Rhodey. The special effects were great as they are with superhero movies. The plot has its share of intriguing twists. I believe that this Iron Man is original, but that is my opinion. I rate this movie 10/10.
__label__10 This was a great movie. I am a huge Downey fan, but was really unsure about him playing a super hero especially a guy in his 40's. I can say that because I'm right there with him. He was amazing. I normally don't like these kinds of movies and wouldn't have gone to it if I hadn't known someone who was an extra, but I am so glad I did. Jeff Bridges was so good, I'm having a hard time with him being bald, but it was a good move. My only complaint, was Gwyenth Paltrow. She was horrible, it was like she was really trying to play the part, she half-you know. But other than that it was great. Special effects, whoa.Good job.
__label__10 Martin Scorcese's new film, Hugo is one of the best cinematic experience, I've had in years. The 3D is just simply astounding and the best I have ever seen in a movie. The visual effects, cinematography, art direction, just technically superb. Finally a smart, awe-aspiring family film, which are really rare nowadays. A definite surprise coming from legendary director, Martin Scorcese, who's known for movies with a lot of swears, violence, drugs and other adult-themed subjects.The acting was really good and completely convincing. Asa Butterfield delivers a very committed performance as Hugo Cabret, and he shows a lot of promise in his future career. Chloë Grace Moretz, also gives a fine and respectable performance. Sacha Baron Cohen is surprisingly very effective as Station Inspector. Ben Kingsley gives the best performance in the whole movie, he is just superb and deserves some recognition. Overall, the whole cast was top notch.Eyes may be the window to the soul, but movies are the projection of our dreams, according to "Hugo" that is. Martin Scorsese's first attempt at a children's film might be over most of their adolescent heads, but this founding member of the "Movie Brats" might've just concocted a delectable cinematic treat that speaks to most film lovers' surrealist commitment to the big screen. In retrospect, it works, and this enchanting flick is one of the best of the year.
__label__10 I just returned home after seeing Hugo on opening day and if I can describe this film in one word, it would be beautiful. This film has inspired me in ways that I can't even begin to explain. It's been a while since I've seen a film that spoke to me as personally as this film did. I'm a fan of Martin Scorsese and he's crafted a beautiful ode to not only cinema but also imagination and in a way, it celebrates all the things that help us escape. The world is a scary place and everyone goes through pain and suffering but if you just try and learn to dream, find your voice and not be afraid then you would be surprised what could happen.I love how this film tells the amazing story of pioneer filmmaker Georges Melies who many of today's directors such as Steven Spielberg and James Cameron owe everything to. I love his films and I own a box set of his work, it's wonderful to see more people be introduced to him and the magic he created that continues to capture the imagination of many.So if you love the cinema and magic then I highly recommend this masterpiece. Hugo is really something special I think.
__label__10 A film adventure in every sense of the word. I was propelled into Martin Scorsese's cinematic mind in a film he made for his 12 year old daughter. Everything about it speaks of love of cinema. I wept, I must confess it right here and now. I really wept. Not just for the humanity of the story but by the heart and mind of the man behind the camera. This is the same man who gave us "Taxi Driver", "Raging Bull", "Goodfellas" Every detail enriches our experience. Dante Ferreti's production design is, monumental, costumes, photography and Howard Shore's score are, quite simply, breath taking. I'm running out of superlatives and I haven't yet mentioned Sacha Baron Cohen, priceless. There is moment in which our young protagonists sneak into a movie theater and sit in amazement watching Harold Lloyd hanging from the clock. For me, to see Lloyd in the big screen as part of Martin Scorsese's latest dream, is the highest and most moving point of my movie going year.
__label__10 Without spoiling, consider a motion picture whose last 30 minutes are equal to the last 4 minutes of Cinema Paradiso. To be in a theater with people tearing up over images of vintage and historic cinema, so beautifully integrated into a dazzling and heartfelt story is something special indeed. Absolutely knock-out use of 3D, fantastic performances by everyone involved, glorious set design, music, costumes and state -of-the-art CGI that propel a story rather than being superficial, stand alone tricks makes HUGO a film for moviegoers world wide. Absolutely do not miss this film in a theater. The images are transporting and need to be experienced on the big screen.Thanks Marty, for bringing to us all such a gift. This is truly one for the ages
__label__10 So I saw this film today, and I was blown away. I'll admit that the trailer didn't impress me much, and if you do come out of it thinking that Hugo is just for kids, it's not. It's so much more than that. I had heard of Martin Scorsese directing a 3-D picture, but I didn't realize it was this very adaptation. The book was a wonderful experience (go read it - the pictures within are like a film by itself!), and I can't believe I didn't think the 3-D medium would work for it.Absolutely brilliant. From the very first scene, you get a sense of how Scorsese is able to tap into the charm of 3-D - the essence of it - which is so easily lost amidst the abundance of films that get slapped with the 3-D label, but in a less cash-greedy industry need not warrant the extra surcharge. Scorsese takes his time to immerse the audience in Paris, in the train station, in Hugo's everyday surroundings that may seem almost ordinary to him by this point but for us, it's a whole different world. At times I forgot I was watching a live-action film because some of it was just so vibrant (yes, even with the automatic dimming of your 3-D glasses).The cast was wonderful - Asa Butterfield as the main lead, has got such expressive eyes that you feel the hurt when he thinks of his father (played by Jude Law), which is very often. Chloe Moretz partners him very well as a fellow adventurer, and of course, you've also got: Ben Kingsley, Sacha Baron Cohen, Helen McCrory, etc. to round out the characters.It's such a fantastical but genuine story that you can't help but fall in love with it, I think. Scorsese has brought a boy's dream to life but also written a love letter to film-making. I won't spoil anything outside of the trailer for fear of diminishing the magic, but I needed to write a somewhat coherent review to get my thoughts down, and hopefully persuade more people to watch the film! There's heart, there's magic, there's wonder, there's enjoyment, there's a little bit of everything for everyone to love in this. Some parts had me misty-eyed with the wonderful score and the ode to the joy of film.And I know the mandatory 3-D will deter people but this film is one of those rare ones (and at the moment the only film so far this year that I can think of) that extols the virtue of 3-D. I WEAR GLASSES SO I HAVE TO PUT 3-D GLASSES OVER MY OWN PAIR AND I WASN'T ANNOYED AT ALL - IT WAS WELL WORTH IT. So I'm speaking for that crowd right now. I know there are plenty of us out there! The genius of Scorsese strikes here, so pop in and have an adventure. :)
__label__10 I attended the DGA screening over the weekend, followed by a Q&A moderated by James Cameron. Cameron's first words (after correctly referring to Scorsese as "maestro"), were "I thought we'd just geek out over 3D for a half hour, but having seen the movie... it's a masterpiece." I brought my ten year old daughter, who sat -- if anything -- even more transfixed than I did. Every single image is arresting, the use of 3D is perfection itself, the story is engaging and thrilling and heartbreaking and uplifting and I never wanted it to end. If only it'd be three hours! All the performances are excellent, including the kids. Great British actors appear in roles with only a line or two, but it helps lift the movie into the realm of Instant Classic, and Sacha Baron Cohen brings nuance and heart to his humorous role as the Station Inspector. On the way to the car my daughter asked if we could get the blu-ray when it's available, and I had the same feeling as well.
__label__10 I have decided that I need to start adding my comments on IMDb (which I had rarely done before) just to offset all the comments from other people that I tend not to agree with. Sure, when I see a solid 7 or 8 on IMDb, the movie seems to warrant that type of score, but lately I've been seeing a lot of movies that are not bad that are getting unfairly hammered on their scores. On average I probably watch over 300 movies a year - now that doesn't give me a Masters degree in film or whatnot, but to be able to have an opinion about an art form it doesn't take a degree. So to all of you scanning IMDb comments like I do, consider pausing with this one cause I'm gonna try to give you my view straight up. Enough of that. The key to all movies is expectations. Going into the theater or before renting the movie - what were you expecting? Before you go and see a mummy movie that is an action/adventure, I do not think expecting a lot of great acting and academy-award winning chemistry is reasonable. I do, however, expect decent/good acting; if you get great acting/chemistry - that's icing on top. Like others commented - at a high level this movie follows the formula of the previous ones. That's not a bad thing since I cannot imagine a new and amazing mummy story featuring an Indiana Jones wanna-be couple. I also think some of the casting might not have been the best, but I did not see any blaring failures. John Hannah was a refreshing character this go around whereas I think he might have been a little too much of a winner in the past. I also do not think Maria Bello did a bad job at all - I tend to think that when a major character is covered by a new actor or actress, you should not expect the same result. Thus the question to me isn't whether or not she was as good as Rachel Weisz or whether she would have done a better job, the question is whether or not Maria added or detracted from the character in the story. I found her to be attractive, pleasant and physically capable for the role. She seemed to meet the threshold for me. Now the weakest link was Luke Ford - with the worst chemistry with the other characters - so there you could argue he did not meet the threshold of "good enough" for me; poor casting in my opinion in terms of both his acting and age. In sharp contrast to other reviewers, I found the humor in the movie to be good - though perhaps not as often or funny as I would have liked. Pace of the movie was great - either the action or the environment of the movie kept me interested. Some of the sets were very detailed although not historically accurate. The action and the CGI was excellent - the choreography and editing was done very well. I truly despise the tendency of modern action to either focus too close to the action, cut too often or overuse camera angles - this movie did none of those; anybody who complains of the use of wires in this movie needs to stop watching action/fantasy movies that involve thousands of undead - that's like complaining about the use of stunt people. If you are looking for another action/adventure movie (cause you've seen a ton of them like me) or you like the Mummy movie series enough to want to see another, you probably won't be disappointed. If you're looking for amazing acting with action/suspense/adult themes go watch Lantana, The Blackbook or 300. Solid 7.5 (7 is a solid "good-enough-to-watch" for me. Gets the 0.5 for the fact that I like the Asian theme without being over the top, i.e., racist, and I like the Mummy series, Michelle Yeoh, Jet Li and Brendan Fraser).
__label__10 With well composed images, beautiful CGI effects and stunning locations, dynamic action sequences, and breathtaking music - this an excellent action-fantasy adventure for all ages. This movie sole goal is to entertain, and nothing else. And that's what it accomplishes.It's nice for once to see a movie such as this one that doesn't promise more than it can deliver, which was the case with The Dark Knight. Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor delivers what made the first and second Mummy movies so successful. That's why this is successful, too. A breath of fresh air to move the venue to China. Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor is light-hearted and a fun.
__label__10 I recently attended a preview and found this movie uplifting, hopeful and extremely satisfying. The comedic timing was perfect and casting was great. The constant collision between the ancient and the modern kept the audience in stitches. Ridiculous events such as Evan's unsuccessful attempts to maintain his clean-cut appearance were absurd but Carell made it seem believable and hilarious. The denouement was a wild and crazy surprise that literally sailed right to the heart of what it takes to "make a difference". Morgan Freeman was great at maintaining his aloof yet omnipresent character. It is a fun and inspirational family film. I think it is sure to be a blockbuster so enjoy it. F.Y.I. I've not seen Bruce Almighty nor had it piqued my interest but I think I might have to see it now.
__label__10 Okay okay - so this isn't "The 10 commandments" and it isn't supposed to be the best movie you ever saw - but damn if it didn't touch me as well as make me laugh my ass off! I especially loved all of the little "inside jokes" - like the fact that his wife's name is Joan (of ARK???). And that the realtor (Molly Shannon) is actually named EVE ADAMS (get it? Adam and Eve??)! And did ya catch the name of the movie on the marquee "40 Year Old Virgin Mary" (Corel's other movie - minus the Mary of course!)? I mean come on! That was genius! Stupid scenes just like the fish in the tank cracked me up.Even if you just love animals this was a great flick - and the credits were fun too! Seriously - just try not to take it too seriously and you'll really enjoy it!
__label__10 Why do we go to the movies? To be entertained, to laugh, to be amused, to be pulled into situations that are far from ever happening to us. The only certainty in today's film world that the film that you pick to watch in cinema is Tom Cruise. If you go into cinema and see any of Cruise's films you can be damn sure that that film won't disappoint you. Tom Cruise sure picks great projects. Frankly, I have to say that I haven't seen a bad film starring Tom Cruise.Edge of Tomorrow is described by the director himself as "Groundhog Day meets Starship Troopers". The former mentioned is actually quite important since the trailers made this film look pretty dark, which is not the case. This is fun action film with lots of humor. Humor that perfectly fits this film. The time-loop allows the Cruise's Colonel Cage to remember exactly the situation he repeats over and over, which is many times very funny. At films with time-loop I am alway worried that the film might get repetitive. Well you don't have to when Doug Liman is at helm. The film has no time to get repetitive when it is moving at such fast pace. An action scene follows an actions and the scope is just mind blowing. This film packs in so much in just two hours. Other films usually keep the best scenes for the big finale. In Edge of Tomorrow all the action scenes are the best scenes of the film.Tom Cruise doesn't act as his usual self here, he plays against type. He always tries to come up with something new in his films. So in what role you haven't seen him yet? A wimpy coward. He once again shows what a versatile actor he is. Emily Blunt, as the kick ass Rita, has never been more likable in any of her films than here. she handles the action and the drama perfectly. Bill Paxton mostly just repeats his commands and lines about victory, but he is just so great at that he ends up as one of the funniest characters in the film To me this comes as no surprise, that Edge of Tomorrow is yet another sci-fi Tom Cruise film, which kick ass from start to finish. What roller-coaster ride! This will be hard to top in the upcoming summer season. There is nothing wrong with this film. It's got everything. Even a helicopter crash!
__label__10 You could describe this movie as a dizzying combination of Groundhog Day, Starship Troopers, Source Code and The Butterfly Effect. Edge of Tomorrow borrows from these films and while some of the individual ideas may not therefore be groundbreakingly original, the way they're combined and put to use in Edge of Tomorrow by director Doug Liman certainly is. As aliens have invaded Earth, humanity's only hope lies in a cowardly PR officer Bill Cage (played by Tom Cruise) with no combat skills who is sent to the front lines. His only advantage? A save point, sort of. Are you excited yet? You should be. I don't want to tell you more specifics about the plot because it's best to experience and discover this great piece of work yourself. You have to love Tom Cruise as an actor, he always gives his roles a 100 percent and he's phenomenal in Edge of Tomorrow - Physical, funny and determined. I'd say this is his best performance since Collateral. Emily Blunt is fantastically badass as the poster girl of the war, Rita Vrataski. This is her first real action film and she knocks it out of the park. Cruise and Blunt also have great chemistry together. Bill Paxton and Brandon Gleeson give great supporting performances and most of the supporting soldiers have distinct personalities even with their limited screen times. Edge of Tomorrow's world building is slick and credible. The CGI and the special effects are seamless and bring the great set pieces and the relentless aliens to life. The action is really exhilarating (the cool exoskeleton suits definitely help here) and the script is very witty and inventive as it needs to be when you're dealing with time travel (or time resets if you will). Despite its action thrills Edge of Tomorrow finds plenty of room for character development both for Cruise and Blunt. The script also manages to pull off some quite funny scenes (especially in the training segment). I also have to mention James Herbert's snappy editing because it's that good. The the situations could get old really fast if it wasn't for the fast-paced editing that concisely and freshly shows the differences in each repetition Cruise goes through. The pacing is absolutely relentless and there isn't a boring moment in the film. The tone of the film is pretty much perfect for a summer blockbuster. It's not overly morose or gloomy despite the backdrop of an alien invasion. Instead it opts for wit, fun and action thrills. I was really gripped from start to finish and I had this big grin on my face when I left the theater. I really liked the other recent blockbusters in Godzilla and X-Men: Days of Future Past but Edge of Tomorrow surpasses them both. If only every summer blockbuster was such good fun.
__label__10 I saw the trailer of this, but was expecting another campy "Independence Day" trying to be too funny, "War of the Worlds" that tried to be too serious or "District 9" that was FX for FX sake. I probably would have not gone, but my date said her daughter saw it and loved it.Wow, was I surprised! The characters make the movie. Cruise's less-than-perfect, frustrated but determined "Cage" quickly got me rooting for him. Emily Blunt's serious "Rita" was a great mirror image protagonist.The special effects were so clean and well integrated that they didn't overpower the story or become center stage. Instead, they added to bringing in me into making the unreal premise more real.In the end, this is probably the coolest sci-fi love story I have ever seen. It is nice to see that Hollywood can still produce something other than the formulaic trash that usually keeps me away from the theaters. Warner Brothers, thanks for putting $178 million on the table to make this!
__label__10 Superb! I rarely get to go to a movie with my older son after his siblings came along. We did manage to go to this movie in the cinemas. Not only were we glad we chose this movie to watch, but two years later, we still recall the impact this movie had on both of us. This science fiction story is deeply satisfying. The movie treats the viewers as intelligent people. It is not in the same league of a plethora of science fiction movies that hit the cinemas every year. For example this year we have Independence Day 2, a high budget sequel to a high budget b-movie from a long time ago. It is profoundly forgettable. That is in stark contrast to Edge of Tomorrow, which has stayed with me for so long and today motivated me to come here on IMDb to write a review after two years!This movie is a must watch. Thanks for reading.
__label__10 Read the negative reviews, the people calling this movie stupid etc. etc. obviously weren't able to fully understand what they were seeing. This is the risk filmmakers take when they don't assume the audience is going to have the mentality of a 10-year-old, but thankfully most of us don't need every little aspect explained in full. This movie hits on every level, it's fast, witty, action packed, and presents depth in surprising places. If you don't have ADHD and can stay focused so you don't fall behind, and possess the ability to perceive without your hand being held and walked through a plot, you are most definitely going to like this movie. I personally give this a "10" because I consider Edge of Tomorrow one of the best films I've ever seen But even if it's not your exact cup of tea, it should at least be a 6 or 7.
__label__10 I was lucky enough to watch an exclusive Premiere Screening in Sydney with a friend last night, I can honestly admit that it was better than I was originally expecting.Storyline goes that William Cage (Tom Cruise), a military officer inexperienced in combat, is deployed into a combat mission against the aliens and even against his will. Though Cage is killed in minutes in a spectacular battle sequence that echoes the opening sequence in Saving Private Ryan, he finds himself starting over in a time loop, repeating the same mission and being killed. Each time, Cage discovers and remembers the timed events that he experienced and decides to learn better to fight the aliens, he teams up with Special Forces warrior Rita Vrataski (Emily Blunt) to defeat them but he will learn why as well he has this power and that he was not alone.The storyline was strong all the way and it never loses itself or goes over-the-top, the acting from Cruise and Blunt is both epic and really a game changer for both (people have complained about the lack of emotion in the characters but I can admit it was not needed here much), casting as well includes Bill Paxton, Brendon Gleeson and even Australian actors Noah Taylor (Game of Thrones) and Kick Gurry (Speed Racer) and they all provided excellent performances.The visual effects are really top notch and even at times remind me of Elysium and even Battle: Los Angeles. The action-set sequences are very well choreographed and are even tense in the opening minutes of the film. The aliens they fight are really incredible looking, scary and even remind me of something out of a Guillermo del Toro film (think Hellboy 1 and 2 or even Pacific Rim). The Exo-Skeleton suits are being more and more awesome whenever they are used in film, I just wish they had invented real ones by now.Overall, EoT is a movie that will not only enlighten Sci-Fi fans but it will keep the action junkies glued to the screen and if you like or hate Tom Cruise, you may be in for a surprise
__label__10 This is a great film, quite underrated. It's actually a classic in my view, the action is really well done but it's funny and the characters have some depth, so it's got that same X factor that die hard and other action classics have. Watch it many times. You won't regret it. Now... time for some PT.
__label__10 1. Story-line is perfect. Its a brand new story. No copycat 2. Almost No Detail miss 3. Best expression from main character Cage (Tom). He can make us understand by silence 4. Good science put in it and its logical 5. nice visual effect and sound effect, good action 6. U just can't simply predict whats up next. Believe me, U can't 7. Repeat-Repeat But no bored cause he innovate his(Tom) movement every time he dead 8. Nice chemistry between Cage(Tom) and Emily(Rita) 9. No stupid Sex and unnecessary romance. Only One nice short kiss at the right time10. Nice endingOK 10 stars
__label__10 Took 3 viewings before this review because I wanted to get it right.On its face this seems to be Groundhog Day with a sci fi twist but in fact it is much more.It is nuanced, and I give the stars credit for making those nuances work.The way Cruise's character changes and matures during the film is something you don't see too often.The riffs on time travel set against the "trope" of being sent to a battle with no preparation is also rare -- you literally would have to go to Groundhog Day to to even come close.The big difference of course is that Murray in GD never really knew what he wanted to do -- except wake up.Here there is a "mission" and that gives this actioner a real shot of adrenalin. The viewer is hooked like a trout.Three viewings so far and I expect to revisit it again.Blount's possibly best role, she doesn't have a lot of dialog but her face is like a watermark on the various scenes, making them unforgettable.As a sci-fi actioner, it's a "9." As possibly the most existentialist love story ever filmed it is a 10 - in the course of the entire film, he propositions her and gets turned down, he tries to chat her up in a car and gets turned down, and then she kisses him just before she dies. All the elements of BOY MEETS GIRL are there. They are just really really really compressed.
__label__10 After watching this movie, i remembered last year's Now You See Me, which was an unexpected and entertaining movie.This is very well paced and executed film. Tom Cruise seriously fits the character. I know the main character in the Japanese novel is a young man, but man i'm glad they cast Tom Cruise in this. I'm not a fan of Tom but to me he always give 120% in every film. If Hollywood wanted it to follow the original material, they would cast some pretty face teenagers that would have the same personality as the rest typical teenagers characters (Stupid, ignorant, selfish, arrogant for no reason). Thank God they didn't do that.The story is excellent and it is nowhere similar to Groundhog Day except for the day loops. it is action packed and there are plenty of funny moments. You may expect the looping days would be boring after a while, but you'd be wrong.I cannot comment on the CGI, because i think there is too much good CGI in every movies nowadays that i am not impressed anymore. But it does not mean the CGI int he movie is bad or anything. On the contrary it felt pretty real to me.My recommendation : GO SEE THIS MOVIE. You will not regret it.P/S : The only bad experience when i was watching this movie in cinema was the guy beside me who constantly open his brightly lit phone and even answered a call. another is a group of stupid teenagers behind me who keep commenting loudly on every scene, thinking they were funny. SO PLEASE DO NOT USE YOUR PHONE OR TALK LOUDLY IN THE CINEMA DURING A MOVIE SCREENING. Thank you.
__label__10 I honestly don't understand what all the fuss is about. Why do people hate Waterworld? Why was it instantly disregarded before it was even released? When you really think about it, how much different IS Waterworld from the more recent Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest? They are quite similar if you think about it. Waterworld also cost $75 million less than DMC. But because it has Johnny Depp in mascara the whole world loves it! Hypocrisy! With a lot of behind the scenes trouble (Reynolds walked off the film and Costner had to finish the final third of filming himself) and negative pre-release buzz, everyone expected Waterworld to fail. Boasting a budget of £175 million (the most expensive ever until Titanic 2 years later) it was sure to be a flop, especially with the snooty public and critics blasting it before its release. Then, the unthinkable happened. Upon release, Waterworld actually managed to prove critic expectation wrong and be a good movie, receiving good (albeit ignored) reviews and finally earning a grand total of $255 million at the Box Office. This is before video, laserdisc, TV, DVD, HD-DVD and Blu Ray sales as well as all of the merchandise. Does sound like a flop to you? The plot is far-fetched. Yes, but so are the POTC plots involving fish-men, giant squids and Orlando Bloom as anything remotely masculine. But you accepted that quite easily. So just, for a minute, believe that if the polar ice caps DID melt that the world WOULD be covered in water. Set hundreds of years after this particular cataclysm, Waterworld follows the journey of The Mariner (Kevin Costner, who is only referred to a few times but never actually named), a man who is one step beyond human as he has the ability to breathe underwater and has webbed feet.Early on in the movie, The Mariner comes across an Atoll, a floating small town complete with its own hill...er Waterbillies. When the Atoll is seized by crazed madman baddie boss Dennis Hopper as The Duke of the Deez (as in Exxon Valdeez), The Mariner escapes with Enola, a little girl who may hold the secret of Dryland and her guardian Helen (the totally gorgeous Jeanne Tripplehorn). Not happy with anyone leaving the party The Duke sends his army of filthy smokers to catch The Mariner and discover Dryland for himself.Waterworld has a lot going for it. It's everything an action/sci-fi movie should be. There is so much escapism in the stunning seascapes and tropical feel. James Newton Howard's exotic score (replacing a rejected score by Mark Isham) is breathtaking and I seriously recommend you hunt down the soundtrack CD. The action is almost entirely special effects and stunt-work and it's brilliantly done. The editing is also quite impressive as is the amazing sound design. Waterworld is far superior to many, more expensive action films but still carries this burden of negative, unfair public opinion.I have only ever seen the 136-minute cut of Waterworld that was released into cinemas and subsequent VHS etc. But a Director's Cut of 176 minutes has been shown on TV in America several times. This version apparently restores several scenes that tie up loose ends and answers a lot of questions about how the this particular watery future works as well as revealing that Dryland is actually Mount Everest. Other than TV airings, this version has never made available to the public. Which is quite annoying as there is a huge fanbase for it.Don't have prejudices against this movie. Think different and see for yourself how cool it is.
__label__10 Back in the day, it was cool to say this was a bad film. But watch it now. It's class
__label__10 it's a shame so many people spent their time running their mouths rather than watching the movie. The story isn't new (what story is?) but its' well done, BIG color, BIG scenes,a touch of serious, a touch of humor, clear cut good guy, clear cut BAD guys with a few "grey guys" thrown in the middle. Costner is always a variable. When the right script hits, no one is better, otherwise it's pretty much a monotone. FORTUNATELY, this is the kind of script where the dead pan, monosyllabic Good Guy works just fine. It's a shame the "experts" (i.e. the critics who create nothing) trashed this one. Even if it were the worst movie ever made, Costner would have been contributing more the "creative world" than ANY critic will in their entire lives. geoff beneze
__label__10 I can see this again and again. Music score- wonderful! Reminds me of Thomas Newman's style, (Road to Perdition) but not him. He's got the sound of happy water down! My favorite part is the ingenious mechanisms used on the big boat/ catamaran type, the workings of the atoll-so creative. There are many lines & terms that stand out for me...." not for sale, not for sale?!" "This wee orchard" is a 1-lemon bush-tree in a pot. Tina Majorino, here a small girl, is a strong, memorable character. Her bond with the main character, the mariner, gives one a good feeling, one of hope about what's possible for the "walking wounded" among us. Dennis Hooper uses his voice to the max, to bring so much interest and color into the picture. The society on the big tanker makes me continue to wonder, to stretch - what would really happen, what would people be like, after generations had gone by, and overcrowding was a problem. Great actors, all. Interesting plot, cool props. Makes one think, laugh, wonder. RE: All the junk I've heard about this movie, and it's lack of promotion - I think its the non-viewers that have lost out.
__label__10 I found the entire movie held my interest. Maybe it is just because I'm a sucker for strange movies. I dont know if it was the plot so much that kept me watching, but I think it had a lot to do with the atmosphere. It made me think and wonder about a lot and that's the kind of movies I enjoy.
__label__10 I was one of those rare people it seems in 1995 when WATERWORLD was released to theaters. I saw the trailer and looked forward to it. The internet hadn't taken over yet so bashing the film was limited to the press and shows like ENTERTAINMENT TONIGHT. All they could seem to focus on was the expense of making the film. They were calling it a train wreck before anyone had even seen it. I ignored it and went to the theater to see the film and loved every minute of it. But before I get into all that what is the movie about?In the future the ice caps have melted and the world is now covered in water. A lone mariner (Kevin Costner) sails the seas in his trimaran looking for items to trade at various atolls that exists, bonded together ships and such where groups of people live and continue to try and survive. Sailing the seas as well are "smokers", pirates who raid and kill to take what they want. He escapes one of these groups and heads out to trade.The atoll he comes across seems safe enough. The people there exist, use their dead to renew their fertilizer pit and dream of a world called Dryland. He trades the most precious commodity there is for chits, dry soil. Taking his chits he goes to the nearby store and meets Helen (Jeanne Tripplehorn) and her little girl Enola (Tina Majorino). A group of townspeople question him and angry at his responses notice that he has gills; the Mariner is a mutant, able to swim underwater. They capture and cage him, deciding he must die.But before that can happen smokers attack the atoll. They're searching for a girl one of their spies learned about. That girl is Enola and she has a special tattoo on her back, one that is supposed to be the map to Dryland. A battle follows and Helen's friend Gregor (Michael Jeter) escapes in a balloon he made but is unable to rescue Helen and Enola. Seeing him as her only way out, she releases the Mariner and boards his trimaran and the three escape.The leader of the smokers is Deacon (Dennis Hopper) who is wounded during the escape losing an eye. He now not only wants the girl with the map but revenge for his loss. And he will do anything in his power to find the Mariner and his passengers.Nice set up, eh? So much more happens including the interactions between the Mariner and his passengers, the search by Deacon and the smokers and the fight sequences that take place not just with them but other ships that come upon the trio. Through it all the Mariner begins to change. He learns to become more human and the non-mutant humans with him learn that he isn't any different than they are. And all along the quest for Dryland rumbles beneath everything.So here is the deal. When the movie came out in 1995 Kevin Costner was at the top of his game. He'd just come off of a huge string of hits and was box office gold. Starting in 85 and through 94 he made SILVERADO, THE UNTOUCHABLE, NO WAY OUT, BULL DURHAM, FIELD OF DREAMS, DANCES WITH WOLVES, ROBIN HOOD: PRINCE OF THIEVES, JFK, THE BODYGUARD and WYATT EARP. What I've noticed about Hollywood, and especially the press, is that when a star reaches a point like this they begin to try and tear them down. It's as if they are jealous of their success and suddenly none of the movies they make gets good press. It doesn't matter if the movie is good or not, they slam it and find fault with it. This movie was Costner's take down flick. After this film he continued to make great movies but you'd never know that based on critic's reviews. He still does but don't expect them to say so.This movie has some amazing elements to it and that should have been the focus. The concept was original and the work that the team behind the cameras did to make it plausible was fantastic. The methods of filtering body water to continue to drink it, the various ways the trimaran is able to be controlled by one man (not really but it is in the film) and the locations where survivors gather are so realistic and believable. That alone should have made people marvel at the film.But it offers more than that. There is a great story being told here as well. Not just about those trying to survive but the humanizing of a character far too long on his own. It also provides a new twist on an old story at the same time, pirates searching for treasure and seeking a map to find it. That's as old as TREASURE ISLAND. But for me the best thing was that the film harkened back to the swashbuckling films of Errol Flynn. As a die-hard Flynn fan who still loves watching CAPTAIN BLOOD and THE ADVENTURES OF ROBIN HOOD this film presented that same sort of adventure. And Costner was up to it. He fit the mold perfectly and yet go no credit for doing so.The special effects here are mind boggling. The vehicles are real enough to survive the sea and be shot on film. And speaking of the cinematography is wonderful as well. Dean Semler shows why he is one of the top directors of photography in the business. Kevin Reynolds also does a great job here too, bringing all the elements together in the most marvelous ways.If that weren't enough there isn't a cast member in here who falters. Costner I've said enough about. Tripplehorn was still in the early stage of her career having just been in THE FIRM with Tom Cruise. Hopper was at his wildest and brings Deacon to life as no one else could have. And Majorino, at the time only 10 years old, showed that she could keep up with the stars. That she's gone on to have a successful career is good news having had roles in both VERONICA MARS and SCORPION on TV as well as the cult favorite NAPOLEON DYNAMITE. Yes, that really is her!So the movie's been out on disc in the past and even on blu-ray. So why would anyone want to pick up a new version of this film. Two words should make that an easy answer: Arrow Video.Yes Arrow Video has gone all out on this one. It's not enough that they treat it like they do all their releases making them the best version possible. Oh no, they had to make this one special. How special? Let's begin with the fact that this is a 4k scan from the original camera negative making it the most amazing looking version of the film since it was released. But wait there's more. There is not one, not two but THREE versions of the film to be seen here. There is the original version at 2 hours and 15 minutes long. Then there is the TV cut with an additional 40 minutes that includes alternative footage. But then they went and made an extended European cut that restored previously censored shots and dialogue to that TV cut making the film run 2 hours and 57 minutes long! Take a breath!Wow, pretty good. That should satisfy most people. Oh no, there is more. More? Yes, more! There are 6 collector's postcards, a double-sided fold-out poster, a limited edition 60 page perfect bound book with new writing by David J. Moore and Daniel Griffith with archival articles and original reviews, a reversible sleeve with original and new artwork done by Paul Shipper, MAELSTORM: THE ODYSSEY OF WATERWORLD a feature length making of documentary on the film, an original archival featurette on the making of the film, GLOBAL WARMING a featurette with film critic Glenn Kenny exploring the subgenre of ecologically aware Hollywood films, production stills, visual effects stills gallery and the original trailers and TV spots. Arrow, you're making everyone else look bad, keep it up!I can't begin to recommend this movie enough or this version of it. As a fan it is a dream come true, a movie that deserved better than it got. It's easy when you're not making the movie to criticize everything about it and to ridicule it for going over budget. But the money spent at least ended up on the screen. While I was only able to watch the first version of the film so far I know I'll be watching the other two in the next day or so. I finished that first and can't wait to get started on the next version. But it's coming out now and I need to let readers know. This is a great movie that you can now re-discover or find for the first time. I suggest that you take the voyage to Waterworld today.
__label__10 Oh my god. This has to be the most misunderstood Pixar film ever created.
I never realized how much hate this movie had gotten until now, but, reading through the reviews, it just isn't justified.
All of these are parents complaining about it being too intense for young children, but, this film isn't for them. I found that it reached out to a completely new audience, one that Pixar hasn't really touched upon recently, and that is pre-teens and teenagers that suffer from depression.
I am now 14 years old, and this film came out at just the right time for me, when things were taking a turn for the worst. I was going through depression and suicidal thoughts for reasons that I don't want to talk about, around the time in which this film was released. I hadn't seen a disney film in quite a long time, and my little sister really wanted to see this one.
Looking at all the generally positive feedback, I decided to go see it with her.
The opening sequence was possibly one of the best Pixar had done since Wall-E. It was beautiful and cinematic, and just adorable. Riley had some pretty gorgeous facial expressions and detailing for an animation standpoint.
As the film moved on, I started to realize how well this film related to my life, and how well riley related to me as a character. Pixar was very subtle with it, but, managed to develop Riley's character so well, with her barely being on screen.
The characters themselves were shockingly complex, especially sadness and joy. (Joy has a brilliant character design, with blue eyes and blue hair which we'll get to later.)
The main plot basically revolves around a pre-teen going into a state of depression after moving to her new home, away from her friends, her hockey team.
Depression, in my experience, isnt what it says it is. To me, it is a complete lack of any feeling whatsoever. When joy and sadness basically lose control of riley for awhile, this perfectly captured the "what is going on inside their head" meaning at the beginning of the film. Joy and sadness are the two most important emotions, and riley didnt have them anymore. A complete lack of emotion, a state of depression.
The rest of the film after that was enjoyable, and a certain character whom I was almost sure going to be a twist villain after that monstrosity that was 'Frozen', turned out to be my personal favorite character in the film. Everyone's had some sort of imaginative personality growing up. I had one.
It helped me cope with stress, I talked to it when I was mad about something, and whenever no one seemed to want to talk to me for whatever the reason, she was always there. That's why Bing Bong's death was just so hard to watch, because of how painfully true it is. I guarantee that 99% of the people on earth have completely forgotten about their imaginative friends growing up. The thing is, he didnt die, he was completely forgotten. When you think about it, it seems so much worse than dying. After that, joy seems to have forgotten about him as well. He isnt mentioned ever again in the movie, but, I'm kinda okay with that. If the movie forgets about him, the audience does as well, which creates an illusion.
Now, let's talk about the ending.
When riley returns home to her worried parents, she seems emotionless. Then I realized something, a slow realization that happened throughout the final scene in the film.
True happiness cannot exist without sadness.
This realization is depicted in one of the most brilliant forms ever, mixed emotions. As riley is growing up and maturing, mixed emotions become apart of her and her core memories. This symbolizes maturity and complexity as you grow up.
This film got me to open up to my parents about my depression and anxiety, and I feel like I have matured just like riley did in the film. Pixar did a brilliant job as depicting our emotions, personalities, and maturity. I love this film so much, and it changed my life.
__label__10 Wtf people. I was just reading like several one reviews and how do people get a movie so wrong?! It should be pg-13? It's not for children? Are these people out of there freaking mind? For all of you who feel that it's not for children, take a look again. You severely underestimate of how much emotion a child can handle and you would be suprised. The 1 star reviews are almost laughable about how inaccurate they are. These people should be locked up in a jail for attempting to stop bringing this movie to the world. I absolutely love Inside Out, it was one of my favorite movies of 2015, and I hope you 1 Star people live your lives full of misery.
__label__10 I've noticed a plethora of negative reviews all saying the same thing- their kids did not enjoy/ understand the movie and it was too dark. Yet they also say that the movie was well made and had an excellent concept. My question to these people is this- If you wanted to see a happy meaningless movie with adult toilet humour, why didn't you take your kids to see Minions? Inside out is for those who like quality cinema, to be entertained as well as taught challenging concepts. It is an artistic film. Why do you people always have to assume that all animated films have to be for kids and filled with stupid toilet humour? This is Pixar we are talking about, those who have created Wall-E and Up. Review this movie on its own merits, rather than be biased in your judgement that the film was too dark and confusing for kids. It was never marketed as a film for toddlers and little kids. I went with my brother who is in high school and it was one of the best experiences we had in the cinema in a very long time. Kudos to Pixar; it was truly an amazing, advanced conceptual, artistic film.
__label__10 As an adult, I love animated films but the trailers made this one look like it was really just for kids. I gave it a shot anyway and I didn't expect to love it--but it's depth absolutely shocked me. Not only is it a whimsical, funny film, but the poetry is off the charts.The creators of this film truly remember what it was like to be a child and continue to express understanding to children's feelings today. Riley is a light hearted little girl on the cusp of adolescence, approaching that turbulent age where everything changes and it seems like there is no one there to help you.Riley's emotions are portrayed using colorful creatures inside her head. Joy has been the ringleader of the emotions up until now, but Riley's life changes are starting to shake things up and Sadness has begun to take over. Truly amazing how this was depicted! Absolutely brilliant.As a kid, adults are often dismissing your emotions and never listening to you when you need them most. Often times kids cannot express themselves and turn to anger, panic or disgust, all emotions that will only heighten your problems as Riley comes to learn.When Joy finally lets Sadness take the reins and Riley opens up to her parents and they actually LISTEN to her...it is breathtaking.Don't miss out on this movie, definitely a must see! Amazing voice cast, beautiful visuals and a wonderful message to people of all ages.
__label__10 Before I start, I will say this; I'm writing this after coming back from a second viewing of Inside Out. Both viewings were out of choice. That's not a unique thing, but I very rarely watch films more than once at the cinema, mainly because life is short, or rather, life is too quick for me. But there's two main reasons why people watch some films more than once at the cinema, especially where I come from; either the film was interesting, detailed, or multi-layered and needs to be seen again to sink in properly, or, it was really, really good.In this case, for me, it's the latter. That's not to say that the film isn't interesting, detailed or multi-layered, but the reason that was repeating in my head to see it again was 'it's really, really good.' But is it? Yes, yes of course it is... Speaking with a bunch of friends with whom I saw it the first time, a risky phrase was unanimously agreed upon, which was that we 'trust the Pixar team to do the right thing.' Needless (totally needless) to say that expectations were high, and frankly, they were surpassed.Even though the film is what we come to expect from Pixar (the universal moral themes, the perfect balance between comedy and sadness, and visually stunning animation and action sequences), I didn't feel that I had seen it all before, and neither was it repetitive nor 'ordinary'. The film hits all the high notes, with perfect intonation, and with discipline and passion. As touched on before, the balance between humour and sadness is strong and impressive; the amount of emotions that the film displays and takes us through is varied and immersive, yet not overwhelming. The film executes such clever ideas with simplicity and ease, leaving us to feel for the characters rather than worry about the 'science' of it all, or even being worried about 'not getting it'.The animation is constantly eye-drawing and detailed; the characters' glistening skin is particularly wondrous. And what great characters they are. Riley is brilliantly sympathetic throughout, even with her difficult mood swings, and the supporting characters are perfectly entertaining. One might think that the superficial nature of the characters (Anger is angry, Fear is always scared etc.) would become old quickly, however the fun never diminishes, thanks to a witty script, expressive animation, and very strong voice performances from the entire cast.However, to top all this off, the real gem comes from the character of Joy, surely a strong contender in the list of Pixar's greatest characters. Even though we are inside the head of Riley for the majority of the film, and the events that drive the movie are essentially her reactions to her new world (moving from Minnesota to San Francisco), the story is Joy's. Being probably the most flawed character in the film (paradoxically, maybe), it's her journey we care about the most, and she ends up being the most in-depth character in the film, occasionally questioning her actions in the first half (well, the cynics will be), and becoming the most sympathetic by the end. Amy Poehler's outstanding performance makes Joy simultaneously the strongest and weakest character in the film (emotionally, that is).After all of this, the freshness of the ideas, the simplified neuroscience, the technical brilliance (saying that, Giacchino's score is probably the most subtle thing in the film, exquisitely putting the finishing touches on the most emotional scenes), fleshed out characters and universal themes, all of this comes together simply to entertain us, to let us escape, and to release us emotionally, which it does by making us laugh and cry in an even and fair manner.And you will laugh. And you will cry. And it is fun to do so. Thank god we're living in a time when Pixar is making these films.
__label__10 I did exactly what I was supposed to when watching this brilliant movie, I felt all the emotions at some point. Pixar did it again with Inside Out. For a long time I had stubbornly repeated that Toy Story would always be my favourite from Pixar, but I changed my mind shortly after watching this one. Like Toy Story you were offered a setup every adult can identify. Growing up learning how to control your feelings and learning the importance of every one of them. It is okay to be angry, sad, happy and afraid as long as we are taught how to manage them. The idea of having this control panel inside a human body has been done before by Osmosis Jones (2001), but let's say with much less success. Inside out takes it to the highest level of perfection. I loved the way Pixar made this world inside the main character of Riley, it is very creatively done and was in some ways just how I had imagined it. I must admit that I cried a couple of times during the movie, because it has some really touching moments. You should be feeling all emotions when watching Inside Out. It is a must watch.
__label__10 Inside Out is a wonderful movie!!! The overall cast of voices made the movie even better. The storyline was phenomenal as well. It has love, laughter, thrilling, dark moments and a wonderful ending of the movie!!!! A++ Film.
__label__10 I hate to see so many 1 star reviews claiming this movie was "too depressing". Everyone who said that missed the point completely. Growing up ain't all sunshine and rainbows, it comes with a lot of hardships and that's what this movie is about. Riley's emotions try to help her through the difficulty of moving to a new place that isn't all its cracked up to be, and in the process Joy accidentally sends Riley into a deep depression. Sounds depressing, but what makes this movie great is how realistic her depression feels as Joy and Sadness try to help Riley out of her out of it. I feel like this movie's message is "Growing up will be tough, but you will get through it and there are people who will always help you through it." and that is a VERY important message for children.Throughout the movie there are plenty of good jokes, gorgeous animation, and a beautiful score by Michael Giacchino (idk how to spell that....) Again, just my two cents, but I think this a great movie, if very different and a bit more depressing by Pixar standards.REALLY starting to think people are just coming to trash all of Pixar's most recent movies out of jealousy or something. There's no way so many people think this movie is garbage. If the good movies are really getting this many bad reviews, it's no wonder the quality of animated movies is going down. There's just no reason to try anymore......
__label__10 I know this may seem clichéd but I was hyped as hell for this movie, because It's Pixar and anything that's Pixar (apart from Cars) then I will see as soon as possible, the trailers made It looks pretty Interesting and a nice change from the childish Cars and predicable MU.I didn't see all of the trailers/TV Spots despite showing a bit too much, but I waited till It got released in the U.K a month after the U.S got theirs released and after finally seeing this film (without spoilers of course) It is by far Pixar's biggest masterpiece!.Everything in the film is the Pixar we all know and adore!, It has a original story, genius concept, Phenomenal animation, It has great comedy, great heart, unforgettable characters and one of the most relate-able animated films I've seen In a while.It's a much watch on DVD and/or Blu-Ray, It is worth it for everyone! and a perfect film for Children as well!.It most certainly gets a 10/10.
__label__10 There is a unique concept to this movie that is found in no other movie. The way they tackle the teenage mind and how it functions is incredible, especially while able to add humor in the mix. The angle they approach the discussion of depression is remarkable. The movie will take you on a emotional rollercoaster. Even Mr. Macho might shed some tears. As some people might say it is too heavy for kids, I beg the question how do you know your kid isn't feeling this way currently? As you leave the theatre in tears it forces you to ponder the question what is going on inside thier head, and allows us to reevaluate our out look on life.
__label__10 Raised by a family of wolves since birth, Mowgli (Neel Sethi) must leave the only home he's ever known when the fearsome tiger Shere Khan (Idris Elba) unleashes his mighty roar. Guided by a no-nonsense panther (Ben Kingsley) and a free-spirited bear (Bill Murray), the young boy meets an array of jungle animals, including a slithery python and a smooth-talking ape. Along the way, Mowgli learns valuable life lessons as his epic journey of self-discovery leads to fun and adventure.Disney Picture is the best company in making top and number 1 family movies.Everything is excellent about this movie.I guarantee you this top movie will win too many Oscars.
__label__10 The Jungle Book is a live-action/CGI fantasy film that retells the story of Mowgli, an orphaned human boy who, guided by his animal guardians, sets out on a journey of self-discovery while evading the threatening Shere Khan. Neel Sethi plays the main character, Mowgli in the movie. He is the only human being on screen and as his first ever role, this kid actor is truly magnificent. He is as good as any kid actor has ever been, even favorably compared to Haley Joel Osment in The Sixth Sense. The computer generated imagery is brilliant all throughout, definitely some of the best ever and the 3D is just mind blowing. In every single scene I kept getting surprised and thrilled at just how amazing the CGI and 3D were. I think the main reason as to why this movie worked it's because it also has a very good story line that's mixed in with the amazing visuals. Also, the voice actors are all perfectly cast. Especially Idris Elba as Shere Khan, who is truly haunting in every scene he's in. That was one well made and scary villain that Mowgli had to face. Jon Favreau did a fantastic work with this movie, cause really this story has been told many times before, and yet this movie feels fresh and interesting nonetheless. I'm glad that it's doing so well in Box Office because it completely deserves it. Movies like this must be appreciated so that they can inspire more great work, and maybe one day, even erase movies like Transformers.
__label__10 Mowgli (Neel Sethi) is a man-cub raised by the Indian wolf Raksha (Lupita Nyong'o) and her pack led by Akela (Giancarlo Esposito) ever since he was brought to them as a baby by the black panther Bagheera (Ben Kingsley). Bagheera trains Mowgli to learn the ways of the wolves but Mowgli faces certain challenges and lags behind his wolf siblings, and Bagheera berates him for using human tricks like tool building, instead of learning the ways of the pack. One day, during the dry season, all the animals in the jungle gather at the Peace Rock to drink the water that remains as part of the Water Truce, a timeout called during a drought that enables all animals to gather at a water hole without fear of being eaten by larger, more predatory animals. The peaceful gathering is disrupted when the fearsome Bengal tiger Shere Khan (Idris Elba) makes his presence felt. He detects Mowgli's scent amongst the crowd and threatens his life since man is not welcome in the jungle. He holds the scars on his face as proof of man's cruel and destructive nature and issues a warning that when the Water Truce ends and the Peace Rock disappears, he will come for the boy. Thus, a debate and argument arises amongst the members of the wolf pack as to whether or not they should keep Mowgli. But before a general consensus is reached, Mowgli voluntarily decides to leave the jungle for the sake and safety of his pack. Bagheera volunteers to guide him to the human civilization. However, en-route, Shere Khan ambushes them, injuring Bagheera while Mowgli manages to escape with the help of a herd of water buffaloes. Mowgli, now alone, stumbles upon a thick canopy where he meets Kaa (Scarlett Johansson), an enormous Indian python who lures him in with promises of safety and an assurance that she knows who and what Mowgli truly is. Kaa's hypnosis shows Mowgli a vision of his father being killed by Shere Khan and of himself as an abandoned infant being found by Bagheera and also warns of the destructive power of man's "red flower". Having successfully wrapped Mowgli in her coils, Kaa attempts to devour Mowgli, but he is rescued by a sloth bear named Baloo (Bill Murray). In exchange for saving Mowgli's life, Baloo tells Mowgli to fetch him honey which is atop a cliff, to which Mowgli unwillingly agrees. Together, they form a close bond and Mowgli decides to stay with Baloo until the winter season arrives. Back in the jungle, Shere Khan visits the wolf pack looking for the "man- cub." When Akela states that Mowgli has left the pack, Shere Khan kills Akela by throwing him off the cliff. He demands that the boy be handed over to him. Confident that Mowgli will return again, Shere Khan takes over the pack. When Bagheera returns to fetch Mowgli, he discovers that Mowgli has decided to live with Baloo. Although tension is raised between the three, they all agree to sleep on it until the following morning. At night, Mowgli hears a cry for help and discovers that a baby Indian elephant is trapped in a deep pit. Using his tricks, he fashions a rope to rescue the baby elephant. This forms a bond between Mowgli and the Indian elephants. Following Bagheera's instructions, Baloo unwillingly confronts Mowgli and lies to him that he never considered him a friend, hoping that Mowgli can change his mind about staying with him. But Mowgli is suddenly abducted by a group of monkeys who take him to an ancient ruined temple and present him to King Louie (Christopher Walken), a Bornean orangutan-resembling Gigantopithecus who tries to coerce Mowgli into giving up the secret to the elusive and deadly "red flower". Baloo and Bagheera arrive just in time to distract the monkeys and manage to hold them off while Mowgli flees into hiding. King Louie chases Mowgli through the temple, causing it to crumble on top of him. Before Mowgli leaves, King Louie informs him of Akela's demise. Furious of the fact that Baloo and Bagheera kept him in the dark about Akela's death, Mowgli decides to return to the jungle and confront Shere Khan to avenge the death of his leader and end his tyranny. But first, Mowgli ventures into the village where the humans live and for the first time, he sees his own kind from afar and gazes at them in amazement. He steals one of the burning torches and heads back to the jungle but accidentally starts a fire. Baloo and Bagheera follow him in close pursuit. When the news breaks out that a man with the "red flower" is making his way into the jungle, all the animals gather at the Peace Rock. Mowgli confronts Shere Khan, but sees how all the animals of the jungle cower in fear at the sight of the fire he holds. He throws away his torch into the water, allowing Shere Khan to attack him. Bagheera, Baloo and the wolf pack manage to hold him off, thus buying Mowgli enough time to set a trap in the burning jungle. He lures Shere Khan into a dying tree with a fig branch and is able to coax him into stepping on it, causing it to break. Shere Khan falls to his death into the pit of fire below. The Indian elephants later help to extinguish the fire by diverting the river. Raksha then becomes the new Alpha and leads the wolf pack. Mowgli decides to do things his own way, having at last found a true home in the jungle with the animals, including his friends Baloo and Bagheera.
__label__10 A great remake that will definitely enchant kids and adults. The CGI characters are excellent and there is an entertaining atmosphere of humor, adventure and suspense. Mogwli is a Lost boy in the Jungle,but has been grown up the animals - Bagera(Panther), Rakhsha(Wolf mother), Baloo (Bear). Soon Mogwli realizes that since he is human he needs to live with humans.Yet,he can not abandon his loyal Animals who have already taken care of him since he was a baby."The Jungle Book" 2016 has a different,but an amazing ending than "The Jungle Book" 1967.I can guarantee that you will see a perfect movie with Great Graphics IMAX Effect and The Best 3D I Have Ever Seen.I really estimate Disney for their support of Lesbian and Gays.Disney is Simply The Best.
__label__10 I'll put it very simply, I think this movie was really cool. Excellent story, visual effects, action, all of it combined masterfully to create a great film that delivers entertainment and style throughout, without sacrificing a good plot. It has all the right elements and the cool elements in a proper balance making it fun yet not dumb.I liked a lot Iron Man 1 and I think if you also did so, then you would most likely like this one too. I really like films of this genre like Batman Begins, The Dark Knight, Hellboy 2, Watchmen and I think both Iron Man films are up to the level. It's great to see that this sequel is as good or even better than the first one.I absolutely recommend this movie, it kicks major ass.
__label__10 I must say, when I first heard the news that there was going to be a Snow White live-action film, I had a good laugh. When I heard that Kristen Stewart was going to play Snow White, I had an even bigger laugh. But when I saw the trailer, I stopped laughing. And then I watched the movie, and knew I had to write a review. This film is not going to win many(if any) awards, nor will it be a favorite this year, but it is entirely a good movie. Stunning visual effects, many great landscape shots, good acting, great action, and a believable storyline. This is not the Disney film you are used to, but a much grittier and more mature take on the original tale. You should not take your children to this film, nor should the intense nature of the film scare you off. I enjoyed it from start to finish, and I think many people will too.
__label__10 When my friend called me up on the morning of 14th May telling me that she won tickets to the premiere of this movie and wanted me to come along, I couldn't believe it. I was half asleep when she called me and in my sleep state I was tempted to say no and hit the hay but THANK GOD I DIDN'T. This movie was absolutely breath taking from the very first scene and it's tremendous considering Rupert Sanders is a first time director. Not even the most experienced directors could have taken this where Rupert took it. The visual imagery was so raw and edgy, I could actually feel Queen Ravenna's lust for beauty and her hatred for Snow White and it's safe to say that Charlize Theron was the perfect actress for this role. Only she could make an evil queen seem vulnerable at the same time. Kristen Stewart was a pleasant surprise! After the Twilight movies, I had somewhat doubted her abilities as an actress but I'm glad and relieved to say that she proved me wrong. She brought such heart, passion and bravery to this role and yes, Snow White did kick some ass! K-Stew was all suited up in armour with her sword in hand ready to fight for her Kingdom unlike the airy fairy Lily Collins in "Mirror, Mirror". It's refreshing to see young blood bringing something new to cinema and not what has been done a thousand times before so thanks K-Stew, you're definitely one to watch! Chris Hemsworth was fantastic as the Huntsman! A "brute with a heart" he most certainly is! Chris Hemsworth brought such strength and vulnerability to the Huntsman. He may appear very rugged and unkempt in the movie but don't let that fool you...his character is soft at heart and is willing to do anything to be a good human being but he doesn't show it as most of us do. He chooses to prove his loyalty by giving his word to Snow White...I won't say anymore but prepare for an interesting twist there! The dwarfs were amazing and had such attitude, Toby Jones, Ian McShane, Ray Winstone gave delightful performances and were definitely one of the highlights of the movies.Overall, the movie is a solid 10/10 and I will definitely watch it again...YOU SHOULD TOO!
__label__10 This film is a TRUE fairy tale. It's dark. It's raw. And it's written from the dark, raw experience of women. Maleficent is about what happens when your Prince turns into a Frog. It's the personal, inner journey to recover from a physical trauma and emotional betrayal by those who are closest to us and who we trust the most. It's about how to survive that type of horrific evil without becoming evil yourself. It's message is that profound.The critics complaining about this film want "fairy tales" to stay in the same "one-love-fits-all" mode where people are either good or evil and that all one needs is to find "romantic" love and marry a "good" Prince or Princess, and you will live "happily ever after," safe from any pain or sorrow. But real life is a lot messier than that.It's actually evidence of how rare it is to see women's unfiltered subjective emotional landscape portrayed on film that it seems many of the critics cannot even wrap their brains around it! No matter. This film is so sensually visually stunning and viscerally emotionally cathartic that sheer word of mouth enthusiasm is going to make this a blockbuster, no matter what the critics say.And it's equally rare to see a protagonist whose inner landscape is more complex than simply extracting revenge, destroying their enemies and...roll credits. People are more complicated than THAT fairy tale we are sold in every other "action" and "adventure" film that only serves to reinforce the psychopathic values of revenge and bravado.Sometimes a film is so ahead of its time that the critics are behind and so philosophically deep that it's message is incomprehensible to the more superficial among us. This is one such film.Woolverton and Jolie have crafted a masterpiece.Don't miss it.
__label__10 Every true fan of the original Sleeping Beauty (1959) was skeptical about this and how much it had to deviate from the actual movie, and as more of the movie was revealed, it was only proving to be another female empowerment, victimized villain kind of a movie. But I'm glad I was wrong, for I'm sure only by watching the whole movie can we truly appreciate and understand the very convincing back story and development the character was subject to. Of course with very liberal changes to the original plot, the key elements that you'd look for are intact. Need I mention the perfect casting of Angelina Jolie, Maleficent truly comes to life in full form by Angelina's stunning skills and presence. A twist that's not cliché, sentiments that are deep, humor that's ever so natural and action that always keeps you at the edge of your seat! Maleficent in this movie is not exactly as we know of her from the few minutes we got to see her in the original movie, but let me tell you she's every bit deliciously evil. It was amusing to see Angelina play a role that requires a lot of nuances to pull of this character with a lot of depth as opposed to the one-dimensional character from the movie. Never letting off the grip, she carried the movie on her shoulders. Nothing to take away from the beauty of the rest of the movie which takes breath with excellent direction and visual effects that will truly transport you to another world, and the amazing work by all the 'supporting' actors. Yes, the other characters weren't as fleshed out as Maleficent, but I see that as good thing, given the title and theme. A spectacular balance. I'd also like to bring light on the enchanting score, thanks to James Newton Howard, this maestro is underrated.A comprehensive movie, there's a little something for audiences of all ages, truly a masterpiece.
__label__10 Went to the theater, expecting to experience the dark side of Angelina Jolie who plays a vengeful fairy with lofty wings and left the theater feeling astonished by how beautifully the movie has changed my perspective towards the antagonist.The remake of the classic Disney movie, "Sleeping Beauty" timely and soundly pans out by wonderfully depicting both beautiful and gloomy sides of fairy land of Maleficent that feud with selfish humans. The Visual effects and acting are so magnificent that mysterious creatures and the cast look totally in sync. The plot naturally goes along with coherent and succinct narrations that add an in-depth storytelling. Not to mention a good composition that captures significant moments without boredom. There are a lot more to feel, enjoy, and learn from what I would call, "One of the most underrated movies of the year" based on how the score is given. Not a Disney movie fan? Doesn't like a female protagonist? I don't think it will matter because once you start watching, you will be mesmerized by the imposing world and the ambivalent emotion of Maleficent.
__label__10 Maleficent is magnificent. The story is sophisticated enough to delight adult audiences with a brilliant take on the beloved tale with a delightful twist including the meaning of true love. The characters are sympathetic and there is enough excitement.The art direction and cinematography are beautiful. The fairy land scenes resemble a pre Raphaelite painting. The castle was a bit generic CGI. The right blend of human faces with CGI so it didn't look too animated. The director Stromberg who did Oz the Great and Powerful did an even better job here.Angelina Jolie's expressive face is the perfect showcase for the character - it is the role of her lifetime. Like the way they did her cheekbones to make it like the Disney cartoon. Sam Riley as her sidekick morphs into many fairy tale creatures crow, dragon horse. The creatures are well done not awkward in movement and not overwhelming. Elle Fanning is sweet and picture perfect for the role of Aurora and Brenton Thwaites plays her prince. The fairies including Juno Temple and Imelda Staunton are cute too.Liked this more than the Snow White movies 'Mirror Mirror' and 'Snow White and the Hunstman'. The first was fun but a bit silly and the second was too grim. Maleficent is the perfect blend of excitement and fairy tale. Most enjoyable film of the year.
__label__10 As a man who prefers science fiction to fantasy, I was pleasantly surprised by this superb film. It is a re-imagining of the classic fairy tale 'sleeping beauty' (at least I think so, as I have never read the original tale in the original language, and it may be that the Disney version with which we are all familiar is, in fact a re-imagining). The film is superbly directed; finely scripted, well acted, and is a joy to watch. The special effects are excellent, but are not overused. They are there when needed, and are spectacular, creating a magical world we can all appreciate. However, the thrust of the film is the changing relationships between the main characters, which are sometimes surprising and key to the story. Preconceptions from the accepted version of this story are overturned, and the altered relationships between the core characters provide a satisfying basis for a reappraisal of the whole concept of the story. This is a film that everyone should see, because I believe that almost everyone will enjoy it. I have no hesitation in recommending this to all viewers, of all ages.
__label__10 Didn't expect a masterpiece going in, but exited realizing "Maleficent" is one of the best, most beautiful films I've ever experienced.It is superlative in every way; executed with meticulous care by experts at every level: screen writing, casting, art direction, cinematography, production design, producing, lighting design, CGI, stunt coordination, acting and directing.Shot after stunningly lit and composed shot, the film is a visual classic from opening to fadeout. If you know even a few basics of how things are done, there are moments where your jaw drops open - and stays there - in amazed appreciation for what this team accomplishes.It veers delicately, sometimes like lightning, from warmth to laughs to concern to sorrow to tears to majesty and back again; building, building to one moment (just before the magnificent climax) that you suddenly know / hope is coming - about ten seconds before it does - which makes it even more magical and earns your gratitude for what they've done with this timeless fairy tale.Every inch of the huge 3D screen displays an unbelievably rich collaboration in the joys of virtuoso film making destined to last as long as Disney's original, delivered by artists at the top of their crafts.Above them all: the remarkable Angelina Jolie (who also co-executive produced).A milestone in its genre!
__label__10 This film is not just the best film of the summer, it's probably so far the best movie of the year! These are the exact reasons why this film is great: 1.Amazing visual effects 2.Great storyline3.Awesome action (Apes on horses, apes with shotguns) 4.Great acting 5.Andy Serkis is probably the best motion capture actor ever. Overall the movie was just spectacular. My advice: don't expect anything when you go into this film. It is without a doubt the best entry in the planet of the apes franchise. Another thing about the special effects in the film, in Rise of the Planet of The Apes although that film had great special effects, there were some parts that you could tell were CGI while in Dawn, you couldn't tell if it was motion capture or CGI puppets. You literally feel like you are looking at apes. Anyways, the story is great, it had some awesome action, this film didn't disappoint me at all. So I will say that Dawn of The Planet of the Apes gets: 10/10 stars
__label__10 Dawn of the Planet of the Apes jumps right into the time when the apes are beginning to build a new civilization while mankind is starting to fall apart. What makes this different from the last feature is it once again sticks more to its symbolism. Now this is the real deal of the context, it's obviously a truce between two sides, it is the part that is mostly known as the last chance before the unwanted fate of their world happens. Since everybody knows how things are going to turn out (regarding this as a prequel), it still provides the heartfelt tension of their trust to each other. Unlike Rise, Dawn of the Planet of the Apes doesn't only throw off a visual effects gimmick on screen, it also deeply focuses on the compelling themes beneath the tale.Whatever legacy that was left from the last movie is the character development of the ape. Caesar has grown understanding more how the world works, his sympathy with the humans remains and he can still believe in peace in them and his own kind. However, anyone else in both sides stayed naive, paranoid on what they're planning to do. It doesn't lack any information, the rubble already shows the crisis going on in those streets and the characters are given their own backstory to effectively define their motivations, thus this is a situation which is far from good vs. evil. The real enemy of this conflict are simply fear, cynicism, and sometimes revenge. It is a dilemma that is a few steps closer to the edge of their trust. And that is how the whole story works, it makes the audience real nervous about the decisions each of the characters make.Even when it's already packed with a great director and a great cast, the film still manages to keep on telling the story straightly, like exactly pinpointing the allegories without distracting any demanded pleasures that you would typically ask from a blockbuster. But as said, it still offers those elements when necessary. Director Matt Reeves gives this franchise a whole new tone. Blockbusters today tend to be ultra serious and darker, but Reeves is one of the rare directors who could live up to that ambition. He doesn't only bring the atmosphere, there are also some nicely shot action scenes that deliberately displays the horror and violence of the battles.But the merits doesn't end there of course. The acting is stellar, mostly pointing at the man behind the leading ape, Andy Serkis. He's always been terrific in this job, but here there is more gravity and grittiness to the performance than before, whether it's physical or vocal. The motion-capture performances just add a lot of exceptional value to the CGI work which could totally outshine everything else in the filmmaking. The actors who played human characters also did good, with Jason Clarke handling his role well.Dawn of the Planet of the Apes is more than a stunningly made film, it thoughtfully considers real depth within its storyline which results an overwhelming experience even without an excess of action. There is already suspense existing at the complexities of the species' treaty. The battle scenes just becomes the gravy of it, but really, the analogies is what makes it really compelling. After years of attempting to bring back the original spirit of the series, the filmmakers has finally realized that this is what this mythology is all about. Except it has become grittier. The film just triumphs in its choices, which it's almost difficult to call it a blockbuster, because blockbuster asks you turn off your brain. This movie makes you open your heart.
__label__10 Robert Frost once said, 'Good fences make good neighbors'. I really don't know if you can understand the implications of this adage from his poem 'The Mending Wall'. So, where do we draw that line or the fence? And how well do we respect that territorial pact? How will our preconceived notions give rise to conflicts and lead us to tearing apart our neighbors? Humans have gone way beyond the Darwin's survival of the fittest theory. Our existential crisis seems to have consumed us so much that we are always war torn; at conflict. Dawn of planet of apes is a glimpse of the beast within ourselves; a mirror to our deeds in the past and the present. It is a brilliant tale of obvious conflict between humans and apes. "But, why? And for what?" catapult this movie to the next level of storytelling.Riding on the wave of success of the sleeper hit and the acclaimed 'Rise of planet of apes', 'Dawn of planet of apes' is not just your average CGI or a sci-fi popcorn flick. Coupled with an excellent story lineup and brilliant CGI and motion capture work, and some excellent acting (from Andy Serkiks, Toby Kebbell and Doc Shaw for their mind-blowing ape-like performances – the motion capture work), this is by far the best movie of the 'planet of apes' installment; all in all, one of the very good movies I have watched in the recent times. Just imagine a set of apes capable of emoting happiness, sadness, anger, rage and so on; unseen and unheard of.Now, the titles make lots of sense to me, at least. 'Rise of planet of apes' shows how a group of apes evolve into intelligent beings, speak and think like humans do, and how the simian virus spreads across the globe infecting the entire mankind. 'Dawn of the planet of apes' starts from where the infection kills millions (ever played Plague inc. on Android/IOS?). A small set of humans, who must have either fought the virus or evaded the virus, are living off the coast of San Francisco and that's when the movie is set.As the title suggests, it is the 'dawn' of something at brink. What is 'it'? Which of 'em is going to emerge as the dominant species on this planet? What are the choices they (both apes and humans) make and what are the consequences of these choices? More than often, we do not see movies that have a soul. The soul of the movie lies in the characterization of apes and humans. One minute you feel one of 'em is right and in the very next, you see that the other is right too.The movie will shock you with its unexpected twists. I was spellbound and baffled with occasional bouts of goose bumps during certain sequences, for I never expected that coming. Watch the movie for its breath-taking imagery, for the apes that emote and for the primeval question, 'How did 'it' start?' A highly recommended film. My rating 5/5.
__label__10 It really bugs me that some people trash this movie. Sure, it was not perfect, some things are not really explained, but all in all, it is a nice love story with some good action scenes, nice music and photography. If you like movies set in historical periods, with a fairly good love story in it, you will not regret watching this movie. I do not think it deserves a 10, I give it a 6, but I will rate it with a 10 because of the other unfair reviews.
__label__10 I just saw the movie and my expectations were met. It wasn't over-hyped, it wasn't over done as far as marketing is concerned. It probably could have used a little more, but none the less... It turned out to be a fun film to watch.I am pretty familiar with the original tale and legend of the real 47 Ronin and despite historical inaccuracies, which even most stories today are going to have to create a more dramatic and exciting story like old tall tales. One comes to mind as Frank Miller's Graphic Novel 300 which ended up being film, it was widely inaccurate compared to the true events that occurred, but it made the 300 Spartans look even more awesome and exciting to watch. Most stories have embellishment in them. Otherwise they would be kind of dull. The real world usually tends to be just that.Making this film isn't just about telling a cool story, it is to immortalize those warrior's that stood fast and strong to fight for what they believed in and at the same time make them look good doing it.The visuals were great, the costume design was great, the filmography was amazing, capturing the essence of Japan was awesome. Everything down to the colors, the landscape, trees, buildings and everything. Not everyone will like this movie, but I for one would recommend it to anyone that enjoys good movie about Samurai. This movie I thought had a good story. It wasn't great or Academy Award worthy but it was good. It wasn't all non stop action. The director did a good job of building up without making parts drag and become dull.I honestly thought while watching it, it felt like watching a live action anime. Not to mention, I have an obsession with Samurai so I was sold when I saw the first trailer for the film.Overall, I thought the acting was well done, I think Keanu Reeves did a good job. His character may not have been part of the true story, but for the film I thought it introduced something good for the film. First being an outcast and then being welcomed into the fold later in the film.I also liked Hiroyuki Sanada's acting job in this. I think he did an amazing job as well as the entire supporting cast. They all acted as if they truly belonged there. No one ever felt out of place.If you want historical accurate view on the story, I suggest you buy a book or do some hardcore research into the subject. If you just want to watch a good entertaining movie full of mysticism, and Samurai action. Then this is a good way to go. This is just my opinion, take it as you like. Watch it before you criticize it. That is all I have to say!
__label__10 My wife and I saw this movie panned by critics on Rotten Tomatoes, and the only conclusion we came to is they just were not sensitive to the culture of Japanese mythology. The movie was excellent. We had been dying to see it since the first announcements, and despite the critics reviews, we went. Thank goodness we did.The special effects were good, the story was good. Keanu Reeves did not come off as Bwana, the white savior of the poor little Japanese people, as some people might think, as per the usual American movies. He did stand out, but it was well shared with the Japanese actors. The story itself is not American, and I believe that may have thrown off critics. The ending is unusual, though I will not spoil it for you.I recommend this movie highly. Should you have the itch as we did, see it for yourself. You will not be disappointed.
__label__10 Simply put this is an excellent movie and kept my interest from beginning to end. The character's complemented each other and had strong performances. There is so much we can take from this movie and apply it to ourselves and how we treat/interact with the world around us. Sanada seemed to be the lead character and had a strong performance. Reeves and Shibasaski also had strong performances and displayed such strength and poise in difficult circumstances--brought me to tears. It was action packed, and the special effects were very realistic. I also enjoyed reading the history behind what inspired the movie 47 Ronin. I highly recommend this movie.
__label__10 This film is simply exceptional in every way. The edge it has is delivering the best, grittiest action the genre has ever scene and characters that are as complex as the are fun. Why do I say that? Well...What I love about the character is that Steve Rogers has "I'm-a-man-out- of-time issues" but he's comfortable with the chaos that it brings. In acclimating himself to this century he is at his best. Yes, most people would be overwhelmed but because of who he is and where he's from, he's able to cope and adapt. The serum that gives him his physical edge also gives him a mental boost. It's his emotions that are raw and unaided. Time has passed since Avengers so we don't get to see his day to day amazement and adjustment. I'm glad they skipped that stuff. What we do see is the man who once represented America and has become alien to America and it's slanted values. The passage of time. Add those struggles to a full blown conspiracy film and what results might just be the best film released all year long.Steve Rogers is basically a John Wayne American. The world shifts to him and it's his job to tell everybody "Here's they way things should be done." We saw that in Avengers and even the first film after he gathered his Howling Commandos. Now, the powers that be are a lot more flexible in terms of loyalties and how they're going to get certain jobs done. How he handles this century's gray morality is at the heart of the film.Like most men from the 1940's, Steve keeps things to himself and keeps his emotions bottled up. (EX: the first film when he mentions his mother dying of TB and he was even embarrassed when Peggy found him mourning alone for Bucky) So, bringing The Black Widow in to this film gives him someone who is going to draw out his story, because he's never going to offer it up of his own accord. Natasha learns from him. Fury learns from him. Sam Wilson learns from him. Yet, they all give him something in return. Every character used is utilized perfectly and smartly. Falcon for example, is not in awe of the legend of Captain America. This is exactly what Steve wants in a friend and in a fellow soldier, to not have to be Captain America. Everyone fits perfectly in to the plot and allows access to different beats, tones and emotional depth. Yes, conspiracy thrillers need depth and this one has it.Captain America is probably the only superhero left in this world of the reboot who is singularly heroic. He doesn't have this dark existential quandary like other reinventions. Plugging that resolute goodness into a morally complex story means he doesn't question what he believes, but he questions whether anybody else does anymore. He doesn't question his foundation but he questions where he has ended up and what his role must now be. The conspiracy element and structure of this story helps in that Captain America is not up on a pedestal being self righteous, he's in a corner and that makes you want to root for the guy. He believes in what he's doing and the viewer is along for a great ride sharing that belief.Marvel movies usually establish character early. This one starts out fast but it's got a lot of character in it. The first act packs a punch but does it laying the groundwork for a remarkable third act. They take time showing the issues and you immediately empathize with Steve. Giving us good character depth means the action delivers more punch. And the action here is beyond great. This movie absolutely punches you in the face in the best way possible. The action has advanced a lot from the first film. How he now operates in the world and kicks butt is all very impressive.So, this is probably Marvel's grittiest movie and it's also their best sequel to date. There's a dash of humor but there's mostly a wonderful thriller, conspiracy and adventure that delivers a great great film.
__label__10 Went into the movie not expecting much as I felt that the first Captain America was one of the weaker movies in Phase one of the Avengers. However, this movie was one of the best of the Marvel Cinematic Universe.First off, the action and fight scenes in the movie are just awesome and there is plenty of action to keep you entertained throughout the entire movie. There is also enough humour to balance all this. The characters all had their own amazing moments and the acting is decent as well. You get to see more of Nick Fury, and he was awesome in this. Black Widow is used much more in this movie and as well as being badass, she brings out more of the Captain's story. Sam Wilson (the Falcon) is great and is involved in some great action scenes. The villains in this movie were awesome as well.Quite enjoyed the story as well. There were a few twists; some unexpected, some expected. And the reveal of the unexpected twists in the final third were epic. The story is not just about Captain America and the Winter Soldier, there are darker forces at play and causes the Captain to ask dangerous questions.This movie is very entertaining, the story is decent, the ending is awesome and satisfying and I would recommend watching this. Makes for a decent political thriller as well. This will easily be one of my favourite movies.
__label__10 Now "The winter soldier" is everything a Captain America movie should be. While it maintains some of the humour that now has become the trademark of Marvel films, TWS is way more serious than all of them combined. And this is truly where the film feels so brave and yes different than any other superhero flicks that we have seen. Which brings me to the most important point, the plot. While of course it is not going to be the most original or complicated film of the century, there is the basic screen writing elements that so much lack from modern day blockbusters. You have the (likable) characters and a mystery they need to solve along with a racing clock. It reminded me the 70's political paranoia thrillers (3 days of the Condor - another Redford link, The parallax view, Z) and it is a welcome tone that makes the WS to differentiate itself from the rest. There are strong scenes regarding political fear, control, and information manipulation but it never feels bloated or overbearing. the purpose is to entertain even if it manages to squeeze through a bit of political views with Rogers replacing the viewer's voice on screen. At one point there is a talk about who is who which results in every man for himself mayhem in one of the most interesting sequences that you may see this year. We do not get this stuff these days!Besides the charged plot, the introduction of new characters and the mega mayhem in the streets of Washingthon DC, the Russos have found time (and they should bloody do since TWS is 2 and a half hours long!) to inject some sentiments in the proceedings - a visit to Peggy, a confrontation with Fury regarding SHIELDs actions, Bucky's memory recall, Natasha's kissing talk. They could have easily skip these "crap" but instead the extra running time feels adjusted and coherent with a bit of more characterization which results to bring us closer to the on screen counterparts. However, the action is what took me by surprise. The bar has been set higher now. It is truly unbelievable to think that these two directors (of the "Community" fame) came with such inventive ways of using Cap's shield. Finally, the shield gets to be seen in all of its glory. In addition, all the fist fights (and they are many) are excellent examples and putting the glasses to the school of frantic edit (which I truly despise) with varied and rapid choreography. A terrific elevator fight sequence probably stands out as truly memorable whereas the encounters with the Winter Soldier never feel repetitive. The Russo brothers keep changing the game from stealth and cloak missions, to car chases, to gun fires, to dog fights, to fist fights. There is something for everyone here and it is arguably among the finest I have seen. Impressive considering their credits. Real stunt work (backflips, wrestle moves, somersaults, etc), real fights and it is a pleasing sight to go away from superhero duels of the Avengers, Thor and Iron man. These characters rely on instincts and bullets. No more and no less and most of them do have some brutal moments for a PG-13 film (and blood too).The actors are absolutely brilliant in their roles. While Evans came out as a bit arrogant in the "Avengers" and the least interesting character, here he truly shines. First time ever, I actually bought what he was bringing on the table. This is a soldier who believed in protecting the people and their freedom. Here though, in the modern era of espionage with multiple intrigues and political events, he finds himself unable to identify which side he is on and for what. At one point he even considers himself Fury's caretaker of terrorist "problems". The other side of the coin is Samuel Jackson's Nick Fury and Robert Redford's Alexander Pierce. It is nice to see Jackson expanding his role from 1 minute cameo in "Iron Man" to a fully supporting actor here. But the real standout is Robert Redford. Kevin Feige (the producer) probably knows how to do casting because so far there has not been a single acting mistake. Bringing heavy-acting-weight Redford to a superhero film is actually a bold move and while most movies do not focus on the talented cast, here the Russo brothers give Redford plenty of close ups and necessary gravitational dialogue that kept surprised me for a "summer" and "mindless" blockbuster. Antony Mackie plays Falcon believably enough and it is very good to see a great supporting turn instead of being the comedic sidekick. The winter soldier now himself is as you would have expected? probably the best villain outside Loki(!) in the marvel films. A truly unstoppable and cool killing machine that shows no remorse or regret considering his complete disregard (and destructive) actions throughout the film. Shaw manages to bring a bit of menace to a generally light hearted series of fantasy films as he has to act more with his eyes rather than sharing any scenes of actual dialogue. Is it perfect? Of course not but it does not feel that it is drugging forever or raising any boring flags. There is plenty of plot, intelligence and sweet characters moments to keep anyone satisfying. This is blockbuster at its finest, a superhero film with heart, immersive action and subtle touches of humour. Totally recommended.
__label__10 I'd have to rate Captain America The Winter Soldier as one of the best comic book movies ever made. It is as close to a perfect movie as you can get. Superman has generally held the title as most fondly remembered or nostalgic superhero film even though it has some campy flaws. Spider- Man has generally held the title as most beloved superhero film because of the character. Iron Man has generally held the most grounded and well liked superhero film. The Avengers has generally held the title as most highly rated and best film the genre has seen. Well, Captain America TWS can compete with them all in every category. It is IMO near perfect on every level. It's smart, intense, well acted, fun and superbly done.The first film delivers a lot of action, a tantalizing and beautiful love interest, many humorous moments, powerful messages about internal fortitude and courage, a classic villain, fine acting and many of the basic essentials of any good action movie. This sequel adds an intriguing plot and does everything the first film did but does it BETTER. Including, incredible stunts, unbelievable feats and, not to be rude, but a climax that plays out like a multiple orgasm. The finish features one wave after another of edge of your seat moments. As fantastic of a movie that's ever been made in the genre and I'm not exaggerating one bit.
__label__10 Another hit from marvel!!! can they do anything wrong.With the success of the recent marvel films, this one again is sure to do well at the box office. whats more pleasantly surprising is that this film is probably the best they've made so far, even rivalling the avengers. I'm sure that with these positive reviews this movie will make upwards of 600 million, beating Thor: the dark world, but i doubt that it will beat iron man 3. however with the success of this movie, i feel that many more people with be eagerly waiting for the third instalment so watch out Batman V superman!! The acting as expected from Scarlett Johansson, Chris Evans and Samuel L. Jackson was excellent. Robert Redford was impeccable in his role and he was worth the effort that Marvel put in to get him on board. The rest of the cast all play their roles extremely well and Marvel have done the right thing by bringing the Falcon in the movie, which was played well by Anthony Mackie.The movie is a great political thriller and i must admit, even without the bonus of superheroes, the script/story is a great movie. The superheroes is what we pay and want to see but the amazing flow of the movie itself should leave many satisfied. The superheroes and villains were all great and i hope we continue seeing the Falcon in the future along with Black Widow. This movie is the most closely linked with The Avengers and also Avengers Age of Ultron, from the rest of the phase 2 films. This is a great movie and one that i highly recommend watching.BTW stay for the end credits for an extra bonus!
__label__10 When Fury(L. Jackson, tough as usual, for him and these) is attacked by an unknown enemy, the Captain(Evans, will of steel, heart of gold) and Black Widow(Johansson, sultry and devious – this uses her right, finally) find themselves(they have a great chemistry, with a charming running gag of her wanting to pair him up with a girl, going through a list of ones they both know; and with his straightforward nature, and her relative lack of integrity, they both affect the other towards them, benefiting both) with no one else to trust, except perhaps the veteran Falcon(Mackie, amiable), as they uncover a genuinely devastating truth, while on the run from a considerable force – including the elusive assassin, The Winter Soldier(Stan, terrifying, pure awesome pretty much every second he's on screen).This is just short of the level of The Avengers. It uses the strong continuity of the cinematic Marvel(as in, their own studio) universe better than any of the others, and does justice to many different elements, most of them set up prior to this. Events occur in this that will have serious consequences for future entries. The plot-driven nature and approach of a 70's political thriller(where some characters, all credible and with something to do, happen to wear a flag or the like) in a contemporary setting and with biting satire(on foreign policy, something not entirely new to these, but never before this sharp commenting on mass surveillance and executions taking place before any trial against the (supposed) perpetrator) is spot-on. From a 40's war flick, with heroism and defined lines between good and evil, to the modern method of taking on the opposition – with spying, and questionable tactics(compared to one army versus another).The action all comes about naturally, it's personal, hard-hitting and, on account of next to no CGI, it's "real". Each intense set-piece is varied(fighting, shooting, chasing both on foot and vehicular), you will remember them, and except for one bit, they feel fresh and original. Among the very few weaknesses are that Sharon(VanCamp, another compelling and strong woman) has nothing to do in this, appearing as if her important scenes were cut, and/or that she was setup for the next one. She is the only one that that goes for, a pleasant surprise considering the seemingly bloated cast of characters. This explores S.H.I.E.L.D., and how the iconic super soldier fits into it or, whether or not he does, at all. The 3D is unobtrusive, adding depth and atmosphere, similar to Avatar.There is violence and disturbing content in this. I recommend this to any fan of, well, blockbusters. 10/10
__label__10 This movie Rocks!!!!!! At first, I wasn't very confident about watching a captain America movie because he looked kind of old-school. But when I watched this movie - BOOM !!!!!!! This movie blew my mind.... It is really AWESOME!!! There are many sequences that will make you jump up in your seats. And though I have not included any spoilers, I would like to recommend you to stay after the credits for two amazing scenes, now this is hardly a spoiler as everyone knows marvel always treats the audience with surprising after credits scenes. I shall say no more here. Marvel has done an excellent job on this movie.Chris Evans has done some excellent work as Captain America. But Scarlett Johansson as Black widow steals the movie. Her character is evergreen as usual.Others to look forward to are Sebastian Stan as the winter soldier and Anthony Mackie as The Falcon.I highly recommend this movie. Guys, this movie is really worth your bucks. Moreover, the movie runs for over 136 mins, but never at a single moment during the movie you feel bored. And the ending of the movie leaves you craving for more and more.The climax is terrific. I haven't seen such an awesome climax of a movie since the Avengers. So guys, go for this movie.... take your kids with you. They'll love it. It is a perfect start of summer blockbuster and one of the best movies of the year without doubt..
__label__10 "Captain America: The Winter Soldier" gives super-hero sequels a good name. Not only is this $170 million blockbuster far better than its superb 'origins' predecessor, but it also is a real game-changer for the Marvel Universe. Former "Fantastic Four" actor Chris Evans reprises the title role as Steve Rogers, a 90-pound weakling turned 240-pound heavyweight, whose exploits inspired millions in World War II. Remember Rogers spent about 70 years in suspended animation in an iceberg after he contributed to the defeat the Nazis as well as Hydra. Rogers maintains his sense of honor, or naivety, throughout all his trials and tribulations. Evans makes his old-fashioned, nice-guy antics appear both convincing and charming. Meaning, Captain America remains essentially a goody-two-shoes-bachelor-with-a-shield. Our hero takes a licking but keeps on ticking despite whatever adversaries he tangles with in the second, in-name-only theatrical "Captain America" feature.Co-directors Anthony and Joe Russo of "You, Me and Dupree" let the action coast occasionally in this larger-than-life, two-hour-and-sixteen minute melodrama, but the combat scenes are staged with so much kinetic artistry that you will teeter on the edge of your seat during them. Everything is still appropriately formulaic but entirely outlandish in the gravity-defying Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely screenplay that puts our hero early and often behind the eight ball. My favorite close-quarters combat encounter occurs in the elevator with our hero cornered and outnumbered. Later scraps on the three Helicarriers emerge as no less electrifying. Predictably, everything is business as usual, but the Russo brothers and their scribes provide enough twists and turns to keep you interested in this noisy nonsense. Mind you, one or two things won't register as total surprises because you know some characters cannot perish. Nevertheless, if you enjoyed the first "Captain America" with Chris Evans, you will probably love the second one as much if not more! In terms of a chronological timeline, "Captain America: The Winter Soldier" takes place two years after the cataclysmic New York showdown, but the action itself covers only three days. Steve Rogers/Captain America (Chris Evans) hasn't totally acclimated himself to the 21st century, but he refuses to let it interfere with his duty. While jogging around Washington, D.C., the fleet-footed Rogers befriends congenial Air Force flyboy Sam Wilson (Anthony Mackie of "Notorious") who counsels veterans suffering from PTSD at the VA Hospital. No sooner have they gotten acquainted than Natasha Romanoff/Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson of "The Avengers") rolls up to whisk Rogers off onto his next dangerous mission. Later, Sam Wilson joins Rogers in his capacity as the winged hero Falcon. The first major action scene in "Captain America: The Winter Soldier" is designed to show how extraordinary our eponymous hero is under fire but also how vulnerable he remains. Terrorists have stormed a S.H.I.E.L.D. surveillance ship, and they are issuing outrageous demands for the release of the hostages. Actually, this predicament reminded me of the first mission that Stallone and company embarked on in the initial "Expendables" epic. Mind you, Captain America and his trusty boomerang shield clear the perimeter so Black Widow and Brock Rumlow (Frank Grillo of "End of Watch") can free the hostages and settle with the terrorists. However, more than meets the eye occurs during this seemingly simple mission, and Captain America confronts his superior, S.H.I.E.L.D. Director Nicholas Fury (Samuel L. Jackson of "Pulp Fiction"), about Black Widow's cyber-exploit. No sooner have Rogers and Fury fussed at each other at the sprawling new island headquarters of S.H.I.E.L.D. than Fury briefs Rogers about the next best thing. Project Insight will link three Helicarriers via spy satellites and to eradicate preemptively any threats either domestic or otherwise. Naturally, Captain America doesn't like Insight. If he is shocked that things have changed so much that such a measure must be taken, he is even more shocked later when Fury shows up at his apartment with blood on his hands and an assassin lurking nearby. Of course, D.C. Police are nowhere to be found when these imposters do everything except blast holes in either the engine block or the tires of his fortified SUV during a tense auto chase through D.C. streets. If this weren't enough for Captain America, he must go toe-to-toe with a mysterious combatant with a "Six Million Dollar Man" arm to save the day."Captain America: The Winter Soldier" makes several references to the previous film that strengthens its bond with it. We get a glimpse of the girl that Steve loved and we watch as Steve's best friend, Bucky Barnes, contends with amnesia. The filmmakers not only bring us up to date about Bucky, but also we learn more about renegade enemy scientist Dr. Arnim Zola who collaborated with the Red Skull in the first "Captain America." Furthermore, Zola opts to become a 'ghost-in-the machine' like Johnny Depp in "Transcendence." The Russos and their writers keep hurling obstacles into Captain America's path, and our hero doesn't have an easy time conquering the villains. Anthony Mackie gets to play the first African-American Marvel super hero, and he attacks the role with relish. He wears a sophisticated set of mechanical wings that enable him to fly and perform far-fetched feats. Scarlett Johansson is just as tough and sexy as she was in "The Avengers." Meanwhile, the best special effect in this special effects extravaganza isn't a special effect. Actor Robert Redford proves computer graphics stand no chance against the real thing. Redford qualifies as the most distinguished silver-screen good guy to cavort in such a dastardly manner since Henry Fonda in Sergio Leone's western "Once Upon A Time in the West." If you've never seen Redford in action, you owe it to yourself to check him out. By his presence alone, Redford makes this action-adventure opus into a memorable experience. Let's hope that Marvel Studios can keep up with good work with the forthcoming "Avengers: Age of Ultron" in 2015.
__label__10 Once upon a time there was Iron Man 3 where the hype is on the top of every Marvel movie that I thought wouldn't be surpassed by any other sequels/spin-offs or interconnected movie. The level of Iron Man 3 (not from a fan-boy perspective) was above the top. From the storyline to its action sequences to its comedy was above all commendable (although fan- boys would not agree with me, of course).Then, there was Captain America.Although the first movie was a little bit dragging from the beginning up to the end, the storyline was strong and was complementary to the Marvel Cinematic Universe. The tone was sepia-ish due to the timeline of 1940's. But little did I know that the entire first movie of CapAm was vital for sequel: The Winter Soldier.It revolves around Steve Rogers (Chris Evans) and the events after the cataclysmic Avengers in New York. In his trial to blend with the modern time and facing another familiar enemy which would destroy the entire empire of S.H.I.E.L.D., also a past that is sinister in the present, naming himself "The Winter Soldier", that will rock Rogers' world. Betrayal and Loyalty are his ultimate struggle on who's who he will give his trust, to win over the first ultimate test in the modern world he and the S.H.I.E.L.D. will ever know.There's a lot going in the film, but is not distracting, and the pace is just perfect for the two and fifteen minutes run of it. The character build-up was enough for each, especially on Falcon (Anthony Mackie), the ex-military/side kick of Captain America. With Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson), his character was focused from start to finish because he's the focal point of the movie on which the main characters should act upon after his unforeseen demise. But one superstar, aside from Captain America himself, who garnered an applause and bravo credit in the film, was Natasha Romanoff (Scarlett Johansson). Her finesse, sinister moves, unprecedented jokes and sensual aura made it work for the entire movie. She is that one person in a film that would give a cool effect, plus she's a woman, so, it all works. I think its Marvel's way to introduce her because of the rumoured Black Widow movie and I'm up for the line.The only character that was little most exposure was Sharon Carter (Emily VanCamp), well, I am biased to this because I just so love her. But I guess it's just a build-up to what's to come for her and Steve Rogers in the future.The story of The Winter Soldier was really compelling. The ambush to the main characters was believable in the sense of real life situations. The betrayal of some will pose a question on whether a main character will die. And that's exciting and dreading at the same time, not knowing if your favourite character will make it or not.All the action in the movie was up-beat and so good. Although, I just hoped the camera movements weren't that much moving a lot, but still it works.What I about Captain America: The Winter Soldier was that from start to end, because of the compelling storyline; it will engage you to focus and love every scene. It's a must watch. I'm kind of in battle to what's better, Iron Man 3 or Captain America: The Winter Soldier, and the latter is a bit revamped on the storyline.(This review is also seen in my blog onesettingatatime.com)
__label__10 I had a feeling that Captain America: Winter Soldier would be an amazing movie once the trailer was released. Turns out, I couldn't be more accurate. Captain America: The Winter Soldier is not the usual superhero movie, it underlies a dark theme of politics and conspiracy beneath it. Haunting pasts, betrayals and fake deaths all come into play. In this film, we get to see Steve Rogers' full potential in terms of his heroism and leadership. When the leader of S.H.E.I.L.D., Nick Fury, takes the fall, it is up to Steve Rogers to determine the fate of S.H.E.I.L.D and most importantly, the livelihood of mankind. As the stoic and fearless hero that he is, Rogers takes charge and enlists the help of Natasha Romanoff aka The Black Widow as well as a new sidekick, Sam Wilson aka Falcon, to defeat HYDRA. He exuberates skills that we have never seen before with his gravity defying flips, kicks and punches, even single handedly defeating a whole vessel of villains. It is also exciting to see the strong bond between Captain America, Black Widow and Falcon. The trios are as loyal as ever to one another, never once faltering despite near death scenarios and with multitude obstacles being hurled their way like a violent hurricane. They displayed excellent teamwork in the process of defeating the baddies. The movie also sheds some light and heart-warming moments as well. The playful and snarky banter between good friends Natasha and Steve is fun to watch. The escalator scene, anyone? Also, the scene between Steve and his former love, Peggy was priceless. Here, we get to see the vulnerable and raw side of the Captain which he hides so well on a daily basis.This film is a perfect blend of thrill, action and drama with an intriguing plot. The action sequences are plentiful; there is not just one "special" moment. I was gawking and gripping the edge of my seat throughout the movie. The stunts are top notch and are the best in its genre, perhaps even triumphing the likes of action movies. There are tons of extraordinary fighting combats, insane car chases and fiery explosions that would blow you off your feet. All the actors did a splendid job in portraying their characters convincingly, particularly Chris Evans, Samuel L. Jackson and Scarlett Johansson. Scarlett has a major role and takes up pretty much most of the screen time; so take note of this, fanboys.Captain America: Winter Soldier has claim its spot as the best Marvel movie ever produced in my list as it exceeds my expectations in every single way. I daresay it is even better than The Avengers (It is a large statement to make as I am a massive Avengers fan). I can't wait to see the next installment of the Captain America sequel and The Avengers: Age of Ultron. Bring it on, Marvel!
__label__10 This movie was absolutely great in my opinion; it might even be my favourite Marvel movie at this moment. The beginning already sets a bit of a mood for this movie. We see Steve Rogers, aka Captain America, and he is starting to get used to this world, the 21st century. He is a charming and a bit quirky guy. Especially the relationship between him and Natasha Romanoff, aka the Black Widow, is absolutely amazing! She is a strong female character and that is so great to see in a superhero movie. The movie soon turns into a conspiracy spy movie esque setting, we see old characters returning. Basically: S**t just goes down. At some point there was a bit too much action in my opinion. Not overwhelmingly much so as it distracts you, but still, a teensy bit too much. The soundtrack is great though, the characters are amazing; it is just a pleasure to watch it. No spoilers here, so just go and watch it.
__label__10 Best Shrek. It is a special movie, one of the best movies of all-time. It is a masterpiece on par with the mona lisa. What is so masterful about Shrek is its ambiguity. We never are certain if Shrek really did believe in the values that he professed. At the same time that he sets himself up as above the world, he longs for the affection of the common people. This is symbolized by his exploitative, and patronizing love for a chorus girl, Fiona. Her character is given a paper-thin characterization, the closest thing to a flaw in a perfect movie. Despite the film's pessimistic outlook, it is studded by moments of joy, beauty and emotional truth. The supporting cast of characters, most of them regulars from Wells' Mercury Theater are also superb. So many scenes in this movie linger forever in the memory, one is left with a stirring vision of the frailty of the human condition, the film gives us no easy answers and while being fiercely critical of many of it's characters is universal in it's compassion and sympathy, this is perhaps the most vital ingredient for great art. It's influence, was immediate, incalculable and mostly unacknowledged, the film was a box office and critical failure due to Hearst's efforts and it was not until years later that this film got the respect it deserved. Nowadays there is not one living film director of serious artistic intent that has not been deeply influenced by Shrek 4ever after. It's not just a masterpiece it's a creative touchstone.
__label__10 That is me hoping there won'r be more Shreks. Because this part's story and morals truly made a perfect closure from where and how it all begun in the original "Shrek". Also, I think this part gave a whole new depth and meaning for the theme song "It Is You I Have Loved All Along".I don't think a 3D version has anything to offer, you might as well watch this in 2D. (But I think the whole 3D thing is pointless anyway. Movies ARE meant to be watched and not "lived". That's why they are movies and not real life experiences. That's why we don't NEED them at our face.) Anyway... This is totally worth the price of the movie theater ticket, if you can look at the film from a little bit new perspective.I understand why some might think this not as good and magical as some of the earlier parts as this does lack action and fairytale feel, relatively seeing to them, but I don't think this needed any of it, to be as great as they. Because I see this as a closure, which needed to focus on the morals rather than magic and fairytale elements. And the moral of this part, in my opinion, is the deepest and most important of them all. Count your blessings before they're all gone and don't throw them away for something you already chose to give up, because what past choices seem insignificant for the moment, may have make all the difference in the world. This is combined to the lesson of how you should always read any contract before signing it. "You took the day I was born!" "Correction: You GAVE it to me. Since you were never born, you have no wife and no kids. And when this day ends, your life will end." No Shrek movie has ever taken its morals to this utter level and meaning. I find it completely fascinating and extremely well portrayed in the story.I didn't find the humor remarkably childish or in any way changed seeing to the earlier parts. At least, not during most of the movie.Also, I don't care if the entertainment relied much on the beloved characters, because the characters were put in completely different situations than they had ever been in, which caused them to have developed some new feelings and characteristics. Especially Fiona, and Puss.And one of the new characters I find relatively outstanding. Rumplestiltskin. All the other versions I have known, portray him as a rather helpless dwarf, who only pops up here and there and demand a mother to give him her baby, while he perhaps cracks some supposed-to-be-good jokes. But here, they portrayed him as a clever, cunning, bitter, angry fellow with a new obsession and turned him into downright a little sh*t. And the way they had drawn/animated him reflected every bit of that. I think he's a wonderful character in this film.Perhaps there is less for kids to enjoy than in the earlier parts, but can you even say that any of the Shrek movies have been targeted essentially to kids anyway? I never thought they were.This fourth Shrek is officially one of the most inspiring movies I've seen for quite a while and does stand strong ground next to earlier parts of the series. Warmly recommendable to a Shrek fan, and to anyone who's out for good entertainment.
__label__10 I very rarely write reviews for movies, but after watching Tomorrowland I've never seen a movie that's been so unfairly maligned by negative reviews,especially considering that this movie was an absolute joy from beginning to end. After watching it, and reading truly horrible, reviews I'm starting to think that somebody hired a few live bodies to slate this movie for their own specific reasons. The script, actors and directors captured the feeling of endless possibilities perfectly. The FX were fantastic, there were no lulls in the plot, George Clooney did his thing perfectly, the child actors were incredible, and there were just enough twists and turns to maintain the pace.Please, please watch this movie and make your own mind up - the negative reviews almost put me off, but I'm so glad I actually took the chance. Actually there's one proviso here - and is probably something consistent with most of the negative reviews: If you lack imagination, or the yearning for a better world, then you'll hate this movie. Or you want to raise kids who aspire to be nothing more than reality TV actors. Or if you're a reality TV actor. Or your kids can't read or write because you don't think it's important. Or if you think science is dumb. Or if you can't embrace hope.As for me...I loved it. I'll be watching it again and again :-)One of the best movies of 2015, and now on my "favourite movie" list.
__label__10 This film deserved so much more than what it got, both critically and commercially, when it debuted back in May, where unfortunately it ended up becoming one of the year's biggest box-office bombs. From the mind of one of today's greatest directors, Brad Bird, the same great filmmaker that gave us some of the best animated films of all-time like 'The Iron Giant' and 'The Incredibles' and the best 'Mission Impossible' film to date in 'Ghost Protocol', 'Tomorrowland' is an inspiring original story that above all promotes the two things that have been lacking in today's cynical society; hope and the promise of a bright future.Some have accused this film of being preachy for promoting these exact morals. But if you ask me, that just makes this film even stronger as a result in how it boldly goes against the cynical mindset that you see a lot of nowadays in favor of an optimistic vision of a better tomorrow.Bird and co-writer Damon Lindelof make the right decision to not over-rely too much on the world of Tomorrowland. This film may be centered around a fantastic utopia where anything is possible but it's more about the journey to Tomorrowland than the place itself and the build-up leading into the film's finale is second to none. Ultimately though it was the finale of the film that made it such a polarizing flick amongst critics. But contrary to popular opinion, I thought it was suitable for what the story demanded. In a year where characters like Furiosa are being regarded as some of the greatest film characters of their time, this film features two of the best female leads of the year, played perfectly by Britt Robertson and Raffey Cassidy, respectively. As lead Casey, Robertson perfectly conveys the character's optimistic outlook without coming off as annoying while Cassidy shines in the role of the totally bad-ass robot Athena. George Clooney is also excellent in the role of an inventor named Frank who, compared to Casey, is much more pessimistic about the future but gradually regains his faith over the course of the film. Don't let this film become one of those forgotten box-office bombs just because it dared to critique the cynicism of today's society. With brilliant performances and visuals and messages that resonate more than ever nowadays, 'Tomorrowland' is easily the most underrated film of 2015 and another masterpiece from director Brad Bird.
__label__10 Don't listen to the haters giving this movie ones and twos, because this movie is phenomenal! This was my favorite Disney movie before Inside Out came out (then it became my number two favorite). The characters are nice and fun with just enough screen time and character development to make them likable. The story: Brad Bird's GREATEST PREMISE since a Superhero family! The world is going to end because someone has implanted that idea into everyone's heads. So it is up to a girl with a great imagination and determination to save it. But the twist is the bad guy in this movie isn't George Clooney for making the device, or the Audio-Animatronic girl, or even Hugh Laurie. It's US. Because we didn't know any better, we didn't try to fight the idea of the end of the world. So, in a way, WE are the reason that this movie exists. I guess the only reason people hate on this movie is because of the continuity errors and the fact that they are the bad guys. Speaking of, this movie does have it's faults, but who cares when you have a great story and characters AND amazing special effects. And, yeah, the effects in this movie are beyond amazing. When I saw Tomorrowland for the first time, and the rocket in the Eiffel Tower, I was blown away! I saw the trailers and the effects made me gravitate towards this movie! And the trailer is probably another reason why people don't like this movie. The trailer made it look like an early preview for Star Wars 7. I was also expecting that, but when I saw the actual movie, the trailer didn't matter. So what if you didn't get a dumb action sci-Fi flick. You have a new original idea acted well, directed well, written well, and made at the right time that this movie should have been a hit! Tomorrowland: Disney's dream on the big screen, and I LOVE IT.
__label__10 It took me to another world, I forgot all my negative feeling, Really one of the best movies ever! It made me feel good! this movie should have at least nine out of ten, mysterious, full of thrill, very awesome! You won't ever regret watching this, and you'll not forget it ever! I watched a lot of movies most of them disappointed me, and were a waste of time to me, even though they were with a high IMDb review, I really hesitated watching this movie because of the law review index, It really shocked me how a movie like this gets negative reviews from critics! And it is not hard to be understood as some people said, It was very smooth and like a dream! At last you really have to watch this!
__label__10 I will try to be simple:The good: Direction, original story, performance (especially the two young actresses), FX. A real jewel, and not only without a glitch, but with funny moments and action at every minute, or even, some of them, very touching.The bad: ... It's supposed to need to write something? OK: nothing at all.The worst: All the bad appreciation of critics which really have no good taste for art. A lot of people does not understand that the movie is not just about Tomorrowland, but about a journey inside the heart and will of the people... and with this, as if that was a small achievement, an odyssey.If you want to see a good exponent of the 7th art, don't hesitate to see this movie. If not, just listen some critics. ;)Additional comments: Some people say the movie has technical failures, but believe me, there are none, and the reason is because this movie returns to the most pure essence of Sci-Fi. Maybe some people does not liked because it touch sensible fibers about a very common and well known message, or maybe because they believe that it was only to promote a Disney attraction, but even if that was true, doesn't diminish the quality of the movie. A little childish, OK, the movie was intended for all the audience, and this is not a bad thing, in fact, is an incredible and amazing way about how to show the essence of something really beautiful. Finally, I see some comments about an over-acted Britt Robertson, but if you have seen some of her works before, maybe you can see that the little histrionism that she injected in her character is very intentional, and then you will see the talent of this great actress."In a world where values, commitment, common sense, courage, curiosity, and thinking capacity are weakening, this movie is a beacon of hope for children... and adults too".
__label__10 Brad Bird has yet to let me down, this movie has divided audiences but the division is pretty much down to those who share the quality of imagination and creativity as opposed to those who have nurtured their cynicism to the point of interpreting everything as a negative. That basically is what this film is about in a nutshell, its made to inspire hope from the creative among us who are not living our potential due largely to the multitude of negativity, conflict and selfishness the human race seem to have become comfortable in wallowing in.If this film had been released 20 years ago, I might have never given up my previous profession of drawing comics for a living. This is the first movie that's ever made me reflect on my choices in life and feel ashamed that I "fed the wrong wolf" so to speak. If you have kids then take them to see this movie, inspire them to dream, create and be positive now more than ever. Ignore the critics and the negative reviews, this movie is nothing short of superb family fun with a message more important today than any film you'll probably ever see again.Brad Bird and Michael Garaccchino are the new Steven Spielberg and John Williams, the music in this film is outstanding and will stay with you long after you leave the theatre. This movie has earned a very special place in my heart and up there with Mad Max Fury Road for best movies of the year so far.
__label__10 It's rare for me to walk into a theater and watch a film that I instantly love. Even more rare is when I get sucked into such a film, and loose my "director's eye" that exposes every angle, cut, and page from the script within my own mind. However, if there was such a director who's consistently done this, it's Brad Bird. The Iron Giant, The Incredibles, and Mission Impossible: Ghost Protocol are some of my favorites films of all time, and greatly inspired me as a filmmaker.Yet, none of the previously mentioned films add up to how I feel about Tomorrowland! It is one of those films you watch, and are never the same afterwords. It takes a rather happy weekend and makes it even better. It uplifts you when you didn't realize that you were down, and perfectly stimulates your imagination! It enters your thoughts and will most likely be there, somewhere, in the back of your mind by the time you die. - It's a film you'll always remember.Perfectly blending Cyberpunk AND Steampunk to create a fictional world is no easy feat. I probably would have said it was impossible before seeing Tomorrowland, but, now, am convinced that the two sub-genres can perfectly work together in harmony! The visuals, jokes, pacing, action, and acting are all on par - a staple of Brad Bird's films. While I could see how some may pass up this film if they aren't ones for Back to the Future or The Rocketeer, everyone else will enjoy this film.I feel like this is almost an understatement, but, I put Tomorrowland as my 3rd favorite film of all time! It's perfect, in every sense of the word - maintaining a realistic image, while not taking itself too seriously. Tomorrowland has it all. I'm already fairly certain it'll be my favorite film of the year. I'd recommend that everyone go see it sometime. It doesn't have the hype of something like James Cameron's Avatar, but easily deserves it!
__label__10 Please don't listen to the bad reviews and watch this yourself.I registered with IMDb just to write this. That is how much faith I have in this film. I really cannot believe some of these bad reviews.. "Not a kids film"?? kids would go mental for this.Animation was nothing short of exquisiteComedy was extremely funny (and i'm not one for comedies)Story line was really great tooAlso made me cry a little... mehplease please please watch how awesome this is. i'm nearly 28 and I absolutely loved it.
__label__10 Big Hero 6 is another in a line of many successful Disney animated movies. And rightly so, might I add. The movie is about a boy, Hiro, his friends, Nerds and a health care prototype robot, Baymax. They live in a not so distant, technologically advanced future in a city called San Fransokyo. The story is action-packed comedy with dramatic elements to it and, as such, is appropriate for all ages. If you love Marvel movies, you will most definitely like this one as well. If you are more akin to beautiful landscapes and animated design, then by all means, this is the movie you will want to watch. If you are feeling down, the abundance of comedy, present in this movie is sure to make your day up. There is also a lot to learn from this movie, as some of the most important things (as well as most painful) in our lives, are depicted in this movie. Plus, the movie features one quite notorious figure (without too many spoilers). In short, the movie is a must see for children and for grown-ups as well, if they have a child lurking somewhere within them. Do not make a mistake and pass on a beauty of this movie.
__label__10 I went to watch this movie with my son aged 10 and daughter aged 7 - it was my son who was especially keen to see this, and to be honest, I wasn't really expecting much, as I hadn't watched any trailers about it, or heard much about it, & I thought it maybe more a boys' movie and my son would enjoy it more than my daughter or myself... However... For the entire movie, myself and both of my children were completely immersed in it, and it evoked a range of thoughts, feelings and emotions in all of us, which included laughter and reducing us to tears (and I don't usually cry easily!). We all came out from the cinema each wanting our very own Baymax, and we were talking about and reliving moments from the movie for weeks after! My son who is a huge Marvel fan too spotted and enjoyed that he could make connections with Big Hero 6 to its Marvel origins. Mine and my children's conclusion... We loved this pretty much the same as we loved Frozen... Another fantastic animated movie from Disney!
__label__10 Disney has brought many gifts and rarely disappoints me. Big Hero 6 is one of the best Disney films I have seen since last year's Frozen. This film is fun, clever, imaginative, and filled with spectacle. While the film is somewhat similar to Pixar's The Incredibules due the film's plot dealing with robots and and children with superpowers, it is very enjoyable and would easy please children as well as parents. Big Hero 6 is not only brings out the charm with heart-filling characters and comic relief but has some of the most dazzling CGI I have seen in a Disney movie. The animators did a fantastic job on the character models and the environment was nice looking. My favorite character would probably be Baymax. What's not to like about a funny, inflatable robot who cracks funny one-liners,has the power to heal, and assists Hiro (main character) on his quest to defeat an evil scientist? I can't tell you how much I enjoyed this movie. I recommend this movie to all parents and children. Big Hero is a family thrill ride!!!
__label__10 To be honest, when I saw the preview I thought it was going to be another Disney movie gone bad. So when the movies came around, I had really low expectations for it. But holy crap nothing has made me laugh this hard at a movie since maybe Amelie or Up! Baymax is a non-threatening huggable robot who's only purpose is to nurse those who are in need of medical attention. The only way to wake him up is to scream out "OW" and he is alive and will help you until you are better. The only way to put him back to sleep is to say "I'm satisfied with your work" (Or something like that I'm only paraphrasing) and he has gone back to sleep. But this movie isn't all comedy: it does have a bit of an emotional side to it which I won't go into too much detail about. However I do know that the movie isn't really like the comic books: the back stories of the characters aren't how they are in the movie and even the plot itself isn't like how the movie is, so for the devoted comic book fans, I understand if you hate this movie. However the people who didn't read the comics confuse me when they say it's "Cliche" "awful" "boring". I found none of these things in the movie at all. I was smiling right from the beginning and found myself a little teary-eyed towards the end. So I do recommend this movie if you're up for a nice light movie with a lot of laughs: it might be better than you think.
__label__10 so i originally didn't care for this film. a waster of time, irrelevant to both Disney and marvels big plans. i assumed it would end up like daredevil or black cauldron, best forgotten, bow was i wrong. this film combines the amazing animation, writing and greatness of recent Disney like frozen and tangled, with the great plots of marvel. it nearly had me in tears at times, because there is so much emotion in this film, and had me laughing uncontrollably at others. the group is full of personalities that are lovable and great. baymax is the true highlight of the film, but hiro and tadashi are incredibly stong and great characters. wasabi is always there for the comic relief and gogo is bad-ass. but they all become great as serious characters. and you have to love how honey lemon says "hiro" obviously, there are some issues. no film is without sin. it is predictable, cliché and some of fred's lies are just too stupid for words. but they aren't the points that you will remember. this film is definitely worth a watch and i suggest to to EVERYONE
__label__10 Disney Animation Studios, back in November 2014, bought us a story of 14-year-old robotics genius Hiro Hamada and robot nurse Baymax, who together band together a team of heroes in speed demon Go Go, chemistry master Honey Lemon, organized Wasabi and school mascot wannabe Fred, whose mission is to help the citizens of San Fransokyo.This film is like nothing else on Earth. A unique animated movie, it combines aspects of the Marvel Comics line of the same name, while still keeping the magic of Disney animation.Combined with the valiant, electro-rock anthem "Immortals", created originally by the immortal Fall Out Boy just for the movie, Big Hero 6 oozes heartfelt sentiments, safety tips, and the strength of family and friendship. The Academy recognizes it too, as the film has been nominated for dozens of awards, including nominations for both the Golden Globes and Oscar.
__label__10 Contains spoilers, pass this review if you don't want to see any spoilers, such as end scenes and more.I actually wasn't planning to watch this particular movie, until my friends told me it was a good movie and that I should watch it.I decided to try it and see how it goes. I instantly fell in love with Baymax. He's huggable and simply adorable. Along with that, he's a HEALTHCARE companion! It was certainly a HILARIOUS movie, and I enjoyed every last bit of it.I love how that Hiro, originally a boy who was interested only in bot fights, decides to do something big- starting with joining the nerd lab. There. he meets people like Wasabi, Fred, Go-Go, and more. This movie also played with your emotions. And no, not just a little bit, but a lot. Disney seriously did a good job doing that. This movie was one of those that actually almost made me cry. Near the end, Baymax had supposedly "died" and that made me very emotional. I was so happy that at the end, Hiro managed to make another Baymax using the chip the original Baymax had left behind. All I have to say is that this movie is definitely one worth watching, especially if you like humorous animated films.
__label__10 (Warning there might be some brief spoilers and please READ before rating!)For a long time IMDb has been my help for not only watching many movies but also helping me to be aware what movie's are great or awful. But now I think I'm almost starting to lose my respect for this site when a movie like Big Hero 6 is being wrongfully bashed for being clichéd or unoriginal and many other things. To be honest everyone, Big Hero 6 is getting too much undeserved hatred. Why are there so many people who are so against this movie in the first place? Now don't get me even started with that "it's a kids movie" crap, I'm a 20 year old boy who loves Animated movies as well enjoys live-action movies but I have realized one thing that I think everyone should learn is that: Just because it's an animated flick it doesn't have to be a true kids thing. I don't care if this is a Disney movie, most of them are great and well- crafted but as well there have been some less better movies lately like "Brave" and "Frozen" (please I don't want to offend anyone I just didn't enjoy them very well for various reasons).What I have also learned is that there are two kinds of experience when people watch movies; one are those who enjoys them through the whole of their length and the second are those who analyzes them. I usually don't analyze movies but lately it has been useful for me to experience them but I do enjoy them as well depending my interests and vision. I know when a movie is good or awful but a movie like Big Hero 6 just doesn't deserve the hatred it is getting and having seen the movie twice I really can't find and see what's to wrong with it.People were arguing that "Brave" didn't deliver a prominent story being based on its title, and people were arguing to "Frozen" for the bad moralities it delivered (I admit that some of the morals they showed indeed left me questionable). Did I feel the same with BH6? No not at all. I wasn't just looking for a movie with beautiful animation and some nice humor, I looked for and were hoping for a movie with better morals and I can assure that you will get those in this movie.Stop thinking that this will be a movie that the kids will find it awesome like a "Ben 10" show-off with no story. This neither was a brain-dead movie like a Michael Bay film and neither was it only made for the kiddies, when I was in the theater not only did the children enjoy it but the whole theater with the adults cheered and were happy that it touched them and realizing that the movie worked without being a commercial of something.The movie worked fine and yet being based on the comic book and it's "obvious" changes it didn't look something that looked "childish" or "unbearable". The main character and it's adventure did remind me why I loved the first Spider-Man movie from 2002. I know that many people said that the movie was too fast or really fast-paced that you don't get to learn it's supporting characters. OK while I can agree that the movie was pretty fast-paced but I got to learn the "supporting characters" without any problems, they're not one-dimensional trust me even though we get to learn more about Fred which in my opinion was a very nice character which indeed left me surprised for who he really was. As for the main villain, I didn't mind if it would have been an important or a special character from the movie but I was hoping to know if it were a true villain for a "good" reason. Be honest you don't like it when a certain villain is a villain for no reason. And it's main reason for me looked alright I wasn't unimpressed or flabbergasted at all. Really Yokai was a much better villain than "Hans" from "Frozen".Anyways I found BH6 to have the things that kept me enjoyed, good morals, characters that learn and evolves from their flaws, a cute robot like Baymax (who wouldn't like to have a robot like him?), nice humor without being too crude or inappropriate, pretty nice soundtrack, a gorgeous unexpected moment and most importantly; Heart and I do mean it this time. I don't care if a 10 sounds ludicrous, I gave it a 10 because I was so pleased that Disney finally could capture their essence not only what they were made for, but a movie that finally delivers more desirable morals than what both "Brave" and "Frozen" didn't deliver.So really ignore the poor and negative reviews out there, there not making any justice to this movie. This movie is much better than what you might think it is and stop thinking it like it's meant to be for the children's entertainment where no older people than them can enjoy. Give this a chance especially if you're looking for a better animated film than the last 2 Oscar winners we recently had. And if you ever or somebody you know need a movie that delivers the good morals, this movie will always be there for you.
__label__10 Let me start by saying this: I am the ideal demographic for this movie. I am in my early/mid 30s, I grew up with videos games starting with the ColecoVision 30 years ago, which is, in the movie, when Wreck-It Ralph was released. I still play games. I have a four-year-old son who plays games. He knows who Pac-Man, Zangief and Sonic are, and you can bet that on top of that I know who Sheng Long, Tapper, Q*Bert and Burger Time are.That's what makes me nervous about blanketly recommending this movie to everyone...not just that I'm obviously going to catch more references, in-jokes and cameos than the average movie goer, but that I'm going to recognize the archetypes they're playing off of and the mechanics they're referencing as the stories progresses.It feels a bit like Mallrats, in that I'm so ideally in the target demographic for the movie's release that I'm not sure I can accurately gauge how it will be received by people outside of that demographic.That said, I don't think you need to be a video game fan to enjoy this movie. It's a very well crafted movie with characters that are more Pixar than Disney. I was concerned that this was a "Disney" movie as I haven't seen a 3D CG "Disney" movie that can hold a candle to the Pixar and Dreamworks hits that I'm a huge fan of. And yet, for me, this movie was better than recent Pixar movies and better than Dreamworks movies, with characters and a story that felt worthy of of the Pixar name.I even greatly enjoyed the animated short at the beginning. Again, something I would expect more from a Pixar film than a Disney film. The whole theater experience for this film was a delight, all the way through to the very, very brief bonus scene at the end of a credits, which is something you really, really need to be a gaming nerd to get. (Gamers who have seen The King of Kong: A Fistful of Quarters will definitely get it.) I went into this film with high hopes and expectations, and I was blown away. My wife, who is not a gamer at all, enjoyed the film, and when my four-year-old son was asked by her what his favorite part was, he replied, "Um... Every part! I liked the whole movie!" That he was able to talk to her and I in great detail about the plot and characters while I was able to appreciate the whole film to the level I did as an adult speaks volumes to me about how well this story was told.If you played in arcades in the 1980s, if the games Q*Bert, Burgertime, Pac-Man, Street Fighter II and Sonic all mean something to you: You're enough of a gamer to appreciate all the references. If you have a youngster who's played video games, they're enough of a gamer to get the movie. And even if you aren't, while you may not relate to the subject matter the way I did, you're still in for an enjoyable story, with great characters, masterfully told.Highly recommended, and a 10 out of 10 for me, as I expect this will be on both my son's and my short list of favorite movies for years to come.
__label__10 Disney has made some really good animated movies, but they had never done a lot of movies that are as bright and original as Wreck-it Ralph, the new animated film from Disney. The movie centers on Ralph (voiced by John C. Reilly), the villain in the "Fix-it Felix" arcade game, who decides to become a hero. Because he doesn't like being a bad guy, he goes into some of the video games in order to learn what it's like to become a good guy. He also befriends a character known as Vanellope von Schweetz (voiced by Sarah Silverman) from a candy-coated racing game called "Sugar Rush". When Ralph accidentally unleashes a threat in the arcade, he tries his best to save the day and become a true hero.I had extremely high expectations for this movie. I had the feeling that this will turn out to be an excellent animated film. I thought the premise to this sounded really cool and clever – a love letter to video games. I really love the voice cast.So, did Wreck-it Ralph met my expectations? Absolutely! This was such a fun animated movie for all ages, and better than Disney/PIXAR's Brave (which was also very good).John C. Reilly delivered a strong performance as the title character, who wants to make a change in his life, achieve it, and become what he wants to be. That's what a great movie character is about. Sarah Silverman provides most of the movie's funny moments as one of the "Sugar Rush" characters who Ralph befriends, and is a "glitch" (a character who faults the game). She tries to get Ralph for help to become a racer once again. Jack McBrayer (from the hit-show, 30 Rock) has an amusing supporting role as Fix-it Felix, the main hero in the "Fix-it Felix" arcade game, who sets out to find Ralph and get him back to where he belongs. Jane Lynch does a great job playing the main character in a first-person shooter game known as "Hero's Duty", who tries to find Ralph, alongside Felix.I didn't see the movie in 3D; which I must say it does look pretty darn good in 3D, but I decided to stick with the 2D because of the sharp, pristine screen.The animation is simply wonderful; the bright colors, the set-ups, the environments, the characters all look fantastic. At times, the movie is very gorgeous to look at on the big screen.The characters in this were likable and funny. It was awesome to see some video game characters making cameos (like Bowser, Pac-Man, Sonic, etc.). The story to the movie is well-thought out and genuinely clever. It's always nice to see something new to the table. I really liked the themes to the movie: What does it mean to be a true hero? How can the main character's goal become a success? And so forth.Generally, movies from Disney and/or PIXAR give a lot heart into their stories, which makes the tone of the movie become very sweet. Wreck-it Ralph has enough heart to make it that way. From start to finish, this movie is a lot of fun, and when families bring their kids to see this movie, they're going to fall in love with it.10/10
__label__10 I have to say that I was a bit surprised to see how well this was thought out, the director and the animators put their hearts and souls into making this movie with their special effects and amazing plot line laced with funny humor for both ages (young with the new-gen gaming and the old with retro-gaming). But not only is it funny, but very well thought out and well played.The characters were very well thought out and planned to show how it would be if a old-styled video game character would do in the after-hours when no one was around, they opened the door to a untapped imagination that blew me away. The originality behind the video game characters brings the term nostalgic to a whole new level.They also did an amazing job with the little girl named Vanellope and how her story unfolded, with surprising twists and turns to keep things rather interesting. Not only did they did a great job on the plot but also on the aesthetics of visual effects and gestures as well; Vanellope's character really blossomed because of this (as well as the other characters too).Ralph is one of those characters that you kinda hate being around with and shows that off by his enormous size (and his ape-like hands), he's a bad guy by code but he shows that when there's a will there's a way and Ralph eventually figures it out sprinkled with laughs along his crazy journey to save the day.An amazing job on the visuals, the story line, the character development, the overall plot, and most of all is how they managed to weave all these threads together into a solid movie for everyone. One of Disney's greatest works to be produced in a rather long time and really worth seeing again and again.
__label__10 When I have heard that Disney was going to make a new movie this time about a video game arcade with some of the 80s greatest video games ever made, I was really excited and wanted to see this with lots of expectations. I started to like the premise: A bad-guy named Ralph from a video game called "Fix-It Felix" who wants to be a hero instead of being the villain all the time and goes to both games to receive a medal. So, he goes to Hero's Duty and Sugar Rush where there he meets a girl named Vannellope and makes a friendship with her as she tries to win a race so she can become a racer before they make a deal to win and give Ralph a medal. It's kind of like Toy Story but instead of toys, it takes place in a video game arcade.With that said, I saw this on the opening weekend starting from last night and was blown away. It succeeded what it had set out to do and delivered what the trailers had promised. Before I can get to the redeeming qualities, there is one flaw that I would like to point out. There is some nice messaging, but there are some really dark moments that could frighten kids ages 8-10 especially the tragic back-story of Calhoun, one of the characters of the movie.Flaw aside, everything else exceeded my expectations towards this wonderful movie. The story is very original with some really happy moments, some sad moments, and like I said before, some dark moments that I've already stated and has a very nice concept that would not only remind the adults of the 80s video game references (especially some nice cameos including: Bowser, Dr. Eggman, the ghost from Pac-Man, some Mortal Kombat and Street Fighter characters, and Sonic), but will entertain them as well as the kids young and old. The characters, like the story, are also original with lots of help from a great voice cast including John C. Reilly, Sarah Silverman, Jack McBrayer, Jane Lynch, Dennis Haysbert, and Alan Tudyk. Wreck-It Ralph is a determined protagonist who changes his life and tries to achieve it be becoming what he wants to be and his development between him and Vanellope, an adorable girl from Sugar Rush who wants to become the best race-car driver, is well-thought out. Some of the characters like, Fix-It Felix, Calhoun, whose tragic back-story made me felt sorry for her, and several of the video game characters are also likable, but the most memorable character goes to the main villain, King Candy. He reminds me of Mad Hatter from Alice in Wonderland except he's not only menacing, but unbelievably over-the-top it's hard not to forget this villain.The pacing for this movie is very brisk and moves along very nicely and I like the music from Henry Jackman. It has some nice 80s video game music and the orchestra for several moments of the movie is beautifully well-made. The strongest aspect, however, goes to the animation and boy was it so amazing. The character animation on the Wreck-It Ralph and several of the video game characters are creative and look exactly like the ones from the 80s video games, but what stands out most about the animation is it's visuals. Everything you see in just blows you away. The bright colors, the set ups and the environments of the video games which makes it look completely gorgeous especially the Game Central Station and it's some of the greatest visuals I've ever seen in an animated feature film since Dreamwork's "How To Train Your Dragon", "Kung Fu Panda" and several of Pixar's films including the "Toy Story" trilogy, "Finding Nemo", "The Incredibles", and "Cars".Overall, Wreck-It Ralph delivered what it had promised: an emotional story, lots of great nostalgic references, and nice development from the characters which makes this, in my opinion, one of the best movies of the year and the most anticipated movie next to "The Hunger Games" and "John Carter" My advice: Go see it! It is really *that* good!
__label__10 I think 2012 has been a very good, even great, year for animation in that I don't think I have seen an animated film I've disliked. Wreck It Ralph for me was the best animated film from 2012(although it only came out yesterday in the UK I still class it as a 2012 film), tying with Tangled as the best Disney has done since The Hunchback of Notre Dame. It has something for children and adults alike, and I don't think you have to be a video game fan to like it(I'm not exactly, more of Disney myself, but am very familiar with them through my brother). The animation is wonderful, the characters move with no problem at all, the colours look gorgeous and the backgrounds are detailed, very like the very best of Pixar actually. The music, right from the tempos, rhythms, melodies, chord progressions and instrumentation, is full of energy and the songs are incredibly catchy. The writing is a perfect blend of humour and heart, the film is often hilarious and witty as well as heartfelt and touching in equal measures and the story is fast-paced and much more original than you'd think complete with energetic-but not too frantic- action. I like the Be Youself message, it is an important one and I personally didn't think it was heavy-handed. And of course any video game fan will love spotting the video game characters and references, there's plenty of them and all are colourfully evoked. I found it very easy to relate to Ralph, Fix-it Felix Jr is an amusing character and Vanellope is cute without being annoying or mawkish. The voice work is terrific, with the standout being the gruff vulnerability that John C Reilly brings to Ralph. In conclusion, a wonderful film and the best animated film of the year. 10/10 Bethany Cox
__label__10 The Short: Wreck-It Ralph is a classic. From the slick animation, the great sense of humor, nostalgia inducing references and cameos, and the surprisingly adept and emotional story, Disney's Wreck-it Ralph is the best animated comedy since Tangled, and one of Disney's best animated films ever crafted.Street Fighter, Pac-Man, Q-bert; widely known and considered classic games. But a "new challenger has entered the ring" in the form of old school, Donkey Kong inspired retro arcade game, Wreck-it Ralph. Follow the misadventures of Wreck-it Ralph, voiced by John C. Reilly, as he attempts to become a hero by jumping though various video games. I don't want to spoil any of the plot, but it is incredibly well told and is quite surprising in the end. It has that classic Disney emotion, but with a most unique "video game-y" twist. In the end, Wreck-it Ralph teaches some great lessons, but it is also neither mundane nor juvenile, and that's why it's a winner. The cast here couldn't fit the characters better. John C. Reilly as the big guy Wreck-it Ralph, Sarah Silverman as the spirited and surprisingly funny Vanellope von Schweetz, Jane Lynch as the stoic and hilarious Sergeant Calhoun, and Jack McBrayer as the lovable and yet again laugh- out-loud Fix-it Felix Junior. The movie is absolutely hilarious; the performances from all of the actors fit their roles perfectly and couldn't be funnier. They couldn't have picked a better voice cast, honestly to goodness. The animation continues the high pedigree that Disney has become famous for. Its bright and lively action is wonderful to watch, and combined with great facial animations make for a great and emotional experience. But the winner here is the way that they have adapted the old- school style of video game animation into the film itself. You'll know what I mean when you see the movie. It makes for a truly unique, one of a kind experience! Sony's 4K presentation is crisp and vibrant.The thing to understand though is that with its focus on video game cameos and references, don't worry! You don't have to have any knowledge of video games to understand or enjoy Wreck-it Ralph. The story and main characters are all part of the film's story and world. Rather than using the references as a crutch, they're used more as a springboard into new and unexplored fictional worlds.Granted, gamers of all ages are going to love the care and attention taken when putting in the huge amount of references, cameos, and little bits of easter eggs spritzed and scattered throughout Wreck-it Ralph, making for a truly nostalgic inducing experience. And those classic Disney trademarks, from great characters to a well told story, are all here and are much more than side attractions. The twist is great, the concepts are fresh, and the level of imagination at work revives my faith in the animated genre. There's still plenty left in this old dog after all.And so I have to end this review by asking, "Are you tired of the same old washed up animated feature film? Feel like you're just too old for childish animated movies?" Wreck-it Ralph is the perfect cure. And it's meant for that group of movie goers looking for something more than just another animated money pit. It's laugh out loud funny, exciting and fresh, incredibly inventive and gleefully unique at every turn. It's a classic no doubt, and Wreck-it Ralph will be one of those movies on my "favorites" shelf for decades to come. The true triumph? Wreck-it Ralph feels like that classic game that has been a part of my childhood ever since I can remember; the type of classic where you throw hundreds of quarters away and you honestly just don't care, because it is just that good. 5/5 - Perfection; Stop reading and watch right now
__label__10 Since the release of its very first trailer, a long time ago, Wreck it Ralph has always appeared as one of the most promising animated flicks of the year. Having seen the movie, I have changed my mind: It's not just one of the best animated movies, it's one of the best movies (or maybe the best) of the year. I don't like to make Disney/Pixar comparisons, but this time Disney has outdone itself. Compared to Brave (which was good enough), Wreck it Ralph is a very strong movie, based on a complex, fresh and original story involving the video games world. I think this is the first step in the process of creating an animated movie: to find a fresh, involving idea. Every small detail, every character seems to perfectly fit in this magical world behind one of the most diffused hobbies in the world. This is undoubtedly Disney at its best. In Wreck it Ralph there are not boring parts, you can laugh or be scared, be moved or even be thrilled but you will hardly yawn while watching this movie. During the projection, I literally burst out with laughters, as the movies presents many funny situations. It's a real pleasure to follow the story and to enjoy every small detail present in the movie.The characters are very 'toony' but at the same time they seem to be real and very believable. There are no clichés or stereotypes, everything is fruit of the ingenious minds working at Disney. For example, if you asked me 'who's your favorite character?' I couldn't answer because they're all great and funny. Ranging from Ralph to Vannelope, from Felix to King Candy, every character is perfectly portrayed. But Wreck it Ralph is not just a way to laugh and pass a couple of entertaining hours: it's far more than that. Not only the film is full of references to the video game world, but it contains lots of references to movies and modern world themes. It's even full of reflections upon life, in the typical Disney style.The icing on the cake is the ending. I will not spoil anything about it, I will just say that it's astonishing and very unpredictable. To put it in a funny way, I would say that it's one of the best thrillers I've seen this year! Finally, two words for the soundtrack. Henry Jackman ost is catching and enjoyable. In some cases, it's a mix between music and the sounds of old 8bit video games. In particular, I really appreciated the track 'Arcade Life' and 'Arcade Ending'. The end credits song, 'When can I see you again' by Owl city is also truly enjoyable. I think Wreck it Ralph is not just one of the best animated flicks of the year, but it's one of the best movies of 2012. Disney has outdone itself, I'm looking for other animated masterpieces like this one, fresh original and entertaining.
__label__10 Hey, wait a minute there! How come no one has had the idea of bringing the fantasy universe of video games into the big screen? I do not remember anyone having done this before ... ah ... except, of course, by TRON. Coincidence or not, also produced by Disney. Many people do not know, but Disney was a pioneer in computer graphics in the film industry. And now, under the general direction of John Lasseter (Pixar former), Disney keeps the tradition on creating some of the most magical moments in animated films or even in films regarded as traditional. "Tron Legacy" was an example of this latest kind. Perhaps a misunderstood work , is one of those unforgettable movies , in every aspect, especially for those who like CG, games, great music, a dazzling visual and an engaging story. Another recent product, this time already connecting x Disney Pixar was "John Carter." Directed by excellent Andrew Stanton , this film was also misunderstood by the general public. Unfortunately, it was poorly worked by Disney marketing people and the general public did not understand the overall proposal. Well .. Now we have "Wreck-it Ralph." I must confess ... I cried while watching this movie. That's right! So even as I cried in "Up!" or "Wall-e". These works come from different teams, but all have the same background: poetry. The look of this film is stunning. Colors, details, the overall creativity... are all very touching. The references to the world of video games are priceless! And what about that cute little girl? Well, I would like to summarize this movie as "magic". It belongs to that realm of fantasy and delight of magic, that kind of magic that makes you leave the theater with a light spirit, and happy and relaxed. A bit like Toy Story 3, "Wreck-it Ralph" is about the recognition of each individual's position in the universe and, of course, about friendship. I recommend this movie. At least for those who still insist on dreaming on and on.
__label__10 OK OK I get it.This may not be the overall "best" animated film of all time but, now that I have seen it six or seven times, I think it is not only ONE OF THE BEST but also it excels at the following: * best use of video games as a metaphor for an action story.* best atmosphere -- just when you think you are comfortable with the interior of one game, they introduce another. It is like a 3D film without the actual need for the glasses.* best matchup of voice actor and personality -- every animated film, now, in the past, and yet to come, strives for this. Many die-hard fans will say that Ellen Degeneres as a fish nailed it. Well, I don't think so. The voice acting of Sarah Silverman matched with the animated character (which I swear seems to be just Sarah herself when she was maybe 5 or 6 years old) is the most perfect meshing of the two I have seen.The story, the acting, the direction, all perfect -- this is an amazing movie that really did not get the attention it deserved.
__label__10 Dang i watched this movie so much times now and i still enjoy it, really recommend this movie and was one of the best movies :)))
__label__10 When I first watched trailers for this movie, I was completely surprised that Disney was making something like this. I personally thought this would be something Pixar would make instead. I also wondered how much money Disney would have to give video game companies like Nintendo to use Bowser in their film. I thought I would like it, but it wouldn't crack my top 10 Disney films. I was wrong. I went to see this movie, and I was blown away. This film taught a very good lesson: To be yourself, and to think of others. Ralph is a villain in an arcade game, and he wants to be a good guy, and respected by others, thus starting his journey through other games trying to earn a medal to do so. At the end (spoilers here) he actually remains the villain, but people respect him more, since he helped a little girl in a racing game rise again to glory. He stays as a villain, but isn't treated like the garbage he once lived in since he showed he can be a hero, and a nice guy. He learns to be himself, and people will respect him. The others realized it, and learned from their mistake. That is powerful. But the thing I like most about the film is the comedy. I've seen funny Disney films, like Aladdin, Great Mouse Detective, and The Emperor's New Groove, but when it comes to comedy, this film takes the cake. "You wouldn't hit a guy with glasses, would you?" *Ralph takes off the King's glasses and hits him with them* You hit me with glasses. Well played." Hilarious. The people in the theater were constantly laughing throughout the entire film, as was I. Personally, my only problem with the film is one thing with the villain. Not the villain as a whole, just one part. He's the king of a racing game, and he deletes the file and memory of Penelope, the ACTUAL ruler of the place, so he can be king and she wouldn't interfere. That part is genius, but here's one thing I don't like about him. Apparently, he was actually a virus in another racing game, but they don't explain that until the end of the film. They don't explain that he deleted her file and memory until the end too. You only know that for about 10 minutes of the film (or something like that) until the king is defeated, so this was really forced. However, it is actually a good cause, because one thing I like about the villain is how subtle he is. There's one part (you don't know the king deleted her file yet) where he explains to Ralph why she can't race, and the fact that she is now a glitch makes her unavailable to leave that game, and if someone played it, they would think the game is busted, thus the plug gets pulled and she would die. He makes you feel that he's actually a good guy, and cares for her. I like that a lot. Anyway, outside of my one problem with the villain, this film was excellent. One of the best of the year, and I plan on seeing it again.
__label__10 I decided to watch this movie because I've been meaning to do it for years and never got around to it. And with the new movie that came out I figure i'd need to see the first one first. All I'm going to say is if an animated movie had me tearing up and really invested in the characters, they certainly did something right.
__label__10 This film was a glorious explosion of the hope and Wonder that fills the memories of the Christmas of Olde. It was a well-detailed, innovative, thought-provoking piece that reminded me of the magnificence of belief in childhood ideals. The characters were well-fleshed-out and very easy to "know". The animation was amazingly detailed and very life-like. The musical numbers and side pieces (especially on the train roof) brought some very effective morality and life lessons to the superb computer animation, giving it that "touch" of humanity.We all need to hold a piece of the fragile innocence rekindled in this film near to our hearts and spread that unbridled, child-like joy in the simple things in life to remind us of the good we all carry within us.
__label__10 It was astonishing to read the lead in review. The complaint laid forth by the critic that the director's view of the North Pole and Santa's workshop did not reflect his, too bad. Maybe the critic could do better but it's doubtful. As for the line that the Elven town looked like something out of a German city, so what? Didn't many of the concepts of Christmas begin in Germany? My family (two seniors, a twenty year old father, his 3, almost 4, year old son) loved it. The colors were brilliant. The number of elves dancing, singing, and rushing to create an entrance for Santa was outstanding. Santa, himself, proved to be exactly as he should. Intelligent, sturdy, and kind. His reindeer, just as impressive. Forgetting the North Pole and remarking on the rest of the movie, how well done! The artwork, just great. The excitement, our grandson was out of his chair and standing while holding onto the chair-back of the row in front of us. There were scenes that could have seemed somewhat scary for a youngster, he didn't find them so. He laughed several times out loud, had his eyes glued to the screen when something serious seemed to be happening, loved the entire movie. He wants the DVD for Christmas (he will have to wait a year). He also told us that he wants to see the movie once more before Christmas. Out of the mouth of a three year old, his favorite movie.How can a critic want to re-design that? All because he didn't like the city at the North Pole.? I guess he was looking for buildings made from peppermint sticks. To each his own. As for the three adults, we too were amazed. We went for our grandson. We enjoyed it so much, we applauded (as did others in the theater). It will be easy to return for a second showing. And, the DVD, this family will be buying more than one. My summary states that this was the best Christmas story ever made (put on film, actually), we think it was more than that. It surpasses other great animated films. Once purchased in a DVD format, Toy Story will be relegated to the back shelf, even during the middle of summer.
__label__10 I think this movie deserves a higher rating than a 6.6 on IMDb. I know its just an opinion to everyone else, but I just don't think it deserves to be ignored because "The Polar Express" is one of the greatest experience that I have ever seen, since when it first came out back in 2004 in IMAX 3D. My favorite part in IMAX 3D is where the train starts to go too fast, and we get this awesome experience that you are on a roller coaster ride. I felt like that I was part of that ride, and it was like "WOW!" Of course, I am only watching this in 2D which is fine but it will never be the same experience as what the IMAX 3D did. So, with that said, "The Polar Express" is about a boy who doesn't believe as he gets on a magical train known as the Polar Express as it leads up to the North Pole so he and the rest of the children are about to go see Santa Claus on Christmas Eve late at night. I don't know if the movie has a message but if it does, then I thought it is well done as we should know that seeing is believing as it for us on what we believe. The animation in this movie is spectacular, and I thought the animators did a great job on rendering these characters to make them look real. Of course, you can argue about on why Robert Zemeckis should have just shot this movie in live action instead of animating it. So, what do I know because I honestly don't know; maybe it is just for that kind of style as they are trying to make these characters to be more faithful to the book. Anyway, I thought Zemeckis does a great job on making this movie, and making this a whole lot of fun. Tom Hanks does a wonderful job to work with motion capture as he is playing each character that he is doing; it is also kind of hard on which actor or actress is voicing these characters or doing motion capture but I will leave that up to you. Nevertheless, Hanks was really good in it. The music by Alan Silvestri is very well scored, and the songs that he teamed up with Glen Ballard are pretty good too. I also don't mind if the filmmakers had to add new scenes that have nothing to do with the book, because folks, the book is short so that is probably why they had to expand the book into a movie that is over an hour an a half long. I was fine with it, and have nothing to complain about. So, enough talking about who or what is having problems with this movie, I just thought "The Polar Express" is a wonderful experience and would love if this was brought back into theaters, as well as showing it in IMAX 3D. I give this movie a 10 out of 10.
__label__10 Several years ago on Christmas Eve, I was feeling sorry for myself being single and lonely. After attending church, I waited for a bus home in the cold snowy gloom, fearful about the safety of a past midnight commute. Suddenly a brightly lit bus pulled over with no person present but the driver. Opening the door, he cheerfully bellowed out Merry Christmas and asked me to jump on board. The musical theme from The Twilight Zone played in my head as I entered the warm light.My driver talked about himself being single and lonely, and how he had been saved by Jesus. His married co-workers did not want a Christmas route, so he gladly accepted this run as a way to share the holiday spirit by buoying mine. Although deeply engaged in expressing his thoughts, he drove expertly with care. I remained the one and only passenger. We approached my stop across the street where I live. Not yet finished with his testimony, he parked the vehicle for several minutes. Shaking hands, I alighted. The driver waved as he pulled the bus away. I stared at it fading into the dark distance.That night was my ride on The Polar Express.Thanks to the new movie with the same name, I've been able to relive my journey of faith through the eyes of other witnesses. Presented in a choice of 3D or 2D or Digital, enthralling animation virtually places you on the set, the film opening with an older man narrating his experience as a youngster on Christmas Eve in 1955. His name is never given as he represents any one of us viewers. He lies awake afraid he won't hear the sound he awaits: the sleigh bells belonging to Santa Claus. He's of that age when he's beginning to realize that Santa might just be an illusion, and he desperately needs proof of something out there beyond ordinary existence, something wonderful and inspiring. The Polar Express then arrives, the conductor announcing it will transport him to the North Pole. It struck me that it would take a humongous leap of faith for a child to board this very strange train.There's a tendency to blame modern science for the abrogation of faith. The beautiful sunrise you admire and give thanks for is said to be nothing more than gases and photons resulting from a random Big Bang. Yet questioning faith is ancient and is illustrated in the Bible itself. The story of doubting Thomas tells us he believed in the resurrection of Jesus only upon touching the mark of the nails in His hands. Paradoxically, we are asked to accept this account as Gospel when we ourselves have no hands to examine.As the train begins leaving, the lad climbs aboard. Clearly his own decision, he realizes under the surreal circumstances normal rules of logic don't apply. He joins other interesting characters, including a know-it-all kid, a sweet girl, and a protective hobo whose personality is a bit like my bus driver. Most haunting is the lonely boy from the wrong side of the tracks who you sense has been physically abused.The passengers endure trial and tribulation helping each other grow in understanding themselves and getting to their destination. The scene of the lost ticket flying through the air is profound. How that ticket winds up back on the train mirrors the miracles of real life. Skeptics can explain away the phenomenon, but like the sunrise, is it simply an accident, or is an unseen hand at work? The vast Ice Lake resembles a frozen Sea of Galilee and as in the Biblical reckoning, the faith of those on board gets them to the other side without drowning. Only our youngster remains unsure. It's all a dream, isn't it? His struggles to believe will tear at your soul.When the train finally reaches the North Pole, I grew anxious about Santa's forthcoming appearance. How could he possibly meet expectations? By comparison, Ben-Hur is the sole movie about Jesus I appreciate because His face is never shown. I think it's too difficult for human actors to portray a person who is also divine or otherwise supernatural. But the superb animation process of The Polar Express enhances actors' features, rendering the encounter of the boy with Santa so provocatively authentic that Santa has to remind us he's only a symbol of Christmas, the real Spirit being in the heart.Our hero returns home, the train departing without a trace. Was his adventure real or a dream? Viewers differ on the interpretation of the clues offered. Cynics argue it doesn't matter for either way the whole thing is a fairy tale. Well, reconsider the paradox of doubting Thomas. At the end of the day, even he was alone holding only memories of the hands he touched. Had he merely imagined the event? As with the train ticket or my bus driver, you hang onto the mystery of what happened, believing when others doubt. You may even believe the story of Thomas.I recall the words of the eminent author Ayn Rand, "When people look back at their childhood or youth, their wistfulness comes from the memory, not of what their lives had been in those years, but of what life had then promised to be. The expectation of some undefinable splendor, of the unusual, the exciting, the great, is an attribute of youth - and the process of aging is the process of that expectation's gradual extinction."Do yourself a favor. Step aboard The Polar Express. You'll travel back when you were young and innocent, revisiting the hopes and dreams you have since abandoned. The intensity of your restored faith may prove overwhelming and you may weep as other grownups in theaters have. The movie posters truthfully advertise, "This holiday season... believe".
__label__10 A wonderful film to be recommended to all who can see beyond their on small lives and maybe still see the childhood wonder that they once had as a child. The makers chose to render the film very close to the original art work in the hardcover children's book. An interesting approach. I am stunned at the amount of comments here who really did not get the point of the film. I guess you hear the bell, or even remember what it was like at one time to hear it or you don't, but the amount of ridiculous hate reviews here on this site is ridiculous. I wonder If the times we live in have started to breed the wonder and joy of the imagination out of us all. sad. what did one person write? " we all know that trains don't go down the middle of the street" wow, what a sad state the world is in. see the film for yourself, a film where not everything is spelled out 100 % and it lets your imagination soar.
__label__10 Chris Van Allsburg best selling children's book is considered by many to be classic children's literature. The film version is an animated which benefits the story further. Tom Hanks plays the narrator, producer, and the train conductor. The animation is first rate, award winning, and breathtakingly realistic as well. Of course, this is a children's story and there are some dark moments like the girl who didn't have her ticket and the main character who found it and planned to return it to her so she doesn't get kicked off the train and the ending. Of course, I am surprised that there was negative criticism. If I had children, I would love a classic film like this about the true meaning of Christmas. The act of being the giver and the receiver is what the story is about. Let's not talk about the nativity, that's for another story. If It's good enough for Chris Van Allsburg, it's good enough for me.
__label__10 This film is simply outstanding. Surprises everywhere.One criticism: There was scant (if any) product placement, certainly not the norm in films nowadays and a fact for which I was grateful. But then right at the end I got smacked in the head with Steven Tyler, of all people. It was a very odd sensation, as if he walked into my bedroom during an intimate moment. If not for such a wonderfully buoyant story, it may have popped the warm and fuzzy bubble.I've always wondered how Santa did it, although I never expected the elves to be quite so small. I liked the caribou, they seemed very friendly.'Loved the hobo.Merry Christmas.
__label__10 Tom Hanks's grip is tight and firm on this new Holiday movie, which is just as charming and sugary as Hanks himself. "The Polar Express" is more than a graphic movie, or simply another Hanks movie. This is a new-fangled classic holiday movie! Set to the book of the same title by Chris van Allsburg, "The Polar Express" sets to the theme of "believing is seeing", of which many previous Santa Claus movies have proved in the past, and succeeds by bringing in a child (Hero Boy) who is dangerously close to being a skeptic in the beginning of the movie when he is whisked away on the Polar Express train, a one-way to the North Pole. On the way, he makes friends with Hero Girl and Lonely Boy, and they find themselves in the scariest of situations. In his "stunts" in attempt to follow Hero Girl on top of the train, he comes in contact with the Hobo (voiced by Tom Hanks, with the appearance seems like a run-in between Hanks and Dick van Dyke), of whom seems to play the only role as the antagonist, pushing "Seeing is believing". It all works out in the end, as the trip is complete, but the adventure is never over until the little bell of Believing in the Unknown now rings in Hero Boy's ears clearly as he finds himself believing in Santa Claus, as seeing him face to face. But to be critical in some parts of the movie: the visual effects are amazing and are created to certain height. But all of the "roller coaster" scenes seem to take away most of the movie. Unusually, they only seem to add onto the emotions of the movie-goer and seem to share the emotional journey of Hero Boy. The golden ticket "dance" (very reminiscent of the feather of the Zemeckis/Hanks movie "Forrest Gump") seem to go on forever, and seems to be outlandish (yet all things happen for a reason)once mother nature interferes. The second critical point is the use of the score. It does seem to play much too often in the beginning, whereas there is a lot of mixed emotions, but that seems to be my only concern for the movie. Eventually towards the end, it seems that Zemeckis spreads out the emotions against the adventures. The score of "The Polar Express" is probably one of the most beautiful scores I have heard, which is up there with "Chocolat" and "A Beautiful Mind". Even my favorite singer was apart of the music, Josh Groban with the Ballard hit, "Believe". Josh Groban's voice is a perfect finish, which warms up the movie and the movie-goers' heart with "hot chocolate". This vote should really be a 9 1/2, but I can't find it in me to totally hate the flaws. This movie is a great edition to the holiday movie dynasty, I think the age range should be 7-adult, being the movie is very graphic and can be scary for little kids. Yet, oddly, the movie brings out the child in everyone, of which the little bell of Believing in the Unknown should be resounding in the movie-goers' ear all over again.
__label__10 This movie is a very good movie for all ages! Whenever the Polar Express is on I watch or at least try to watch it. I always wait until the commercial to do anything that includes leaving the view of the television screen. Pretty much everybody in my family loves this movie and this is a very hard thing to happen because all of the ages in my family vary so if you have kids or if you are a kid I would say this is a very good movie for you. Whenever I see this movie I laugh a lot! The whole point of this review is that I am saying, you should most definitely see this movie, no matter if you are a kid or have kids this will be a wonderful movie for you to see!!
__label__10 I watched How to Train Your Dragon about 5 times now, and it never gets boring. It actually keeps on getting better and better with with more and more views. This is a huge accomplishment for DreamWorks Animation, it might actually be its Best Animated Feauture it yet. It is an amazing experience to watch this film in Cinema. The 3D is amazing and at times Breathtaking. I may of had the most fun that I've ever had in Cinema watching How to Train Your Dragon.The script is really good and is has a lot of dramatic depth. This movie is for everyone. Adults and Kids will enjoy it equally and will love it at the end. This movie will probably become a series like Shrek. But I'm hoping this film doesn't get bad sequels like Shrek 3 and Shrek Forever After. Anyways this film will be most recognized for its beautiful animation.10/10 Highly Recommended
__label__10 I saw the trailer and I enjoyed it but I was afraid that all the good parts from the movie will be there and that will be all, like it was with many films lately. That was certainly not the case. There are way better parts that were left to be discovered and I definitely congratulate the choice.I didn't read the book, so I don't know the story, witch might have suffered, as stories usually do from books to picture, but I think a writer couldn't hope for a better image, better portraits of characters, especially the black dragon who one definitely falls in love with - the mimic and the gestures and the face expressions, so complex and real. I agree it's not the kind of movie that makes you keep thinking too much once it's finished bot it's not meant to be. It's just lovely, from the beginning to the end, I really laughed and I was anxious for the characters when they suffered (and I'm 22). The film wasn't too long, it didn't have stupid lines whatsoever and it put to silence the annoying child behind me from the first five minutes or so, which I believe says it all.I don't know if I will actually go to the cinema but I definitely want to see it again. Great special effects and, again, a very lovely dragon.
__label__10 I saw this film in early March, of 2010 in Indianapolis. I am one of the judges for the Heartland Truly Moving Picture Award. A Truly Moving Picture "explores the human journey by artistically expressing hope and respect for the positive values of life." Heartland gave that award to this film.It's in 3-D and it's gorgeous animation. But what really matters is the story. And it's a good one. At first it seems the main story is about a Viking colony equally distant from nowhere, which is being constantly attacked by a wide variety of marauding dragons. It's a full time job trying to keep the dragons at bay and the Viking warriors are often out on their boats hunting their wily and ferocious opponents.But really the story is about a father and chief of the Vikings who has a young son, Hiccup, who is small and who is a slick, sarcastic talker and who doesn't take orders well, but still seeks respect from his impressive father. At first, his Father will not let his son be a warrior Viking, but later relents to have Hiccup train with the other youngsters. But the young boy gets sidetracked and instead of wanting to kill dragons, the boy befriends them and seeks to understand them.A young and inexperienced son seeking approval of a strong father is an often-told tale. Sons often act foolishly trying to impress their fathers. And fathers often ignore the strivings of their sons. In this case, there is honor and courage on all sides and it is inspiring to watch the father and son wrestle with their relationship.And yes, about the dragons – they ARE ferocious and talented and aggressive warriors. But their motivations are a mystery that unfolds slowly. And that's the fun of this film.FYI – There is a Truly Moving Pictures web site where there is a listing of past Truly Moving Picture Award winners that are now either at the theater or available on video.
__label__10 If this is done following the same old beat up formula that Hollywood sticks to with regards to animation, then the dragons will be yakking non-stop. Thank goodness that this film, directed by Dean DeBlois and Chris Sanders, avoids this like the plague, and Jay Baruchel voices Hiccup, a viking kid who happens to be more brains than brawn, more scrawny than buffed, and this of course sets him apart from the rest of his warrior clan folks, who are battle scarred from the constant defense of the village pests - dragons who come from afar to plunder their livestock and setting their houses on fire, so much so that every house on the block is relatively brand new. Wanting to help out in any way he can, he's deemed more of a liability than an asset, especially when even his dad Stoick (Gerard Butler) cannot appreciate his unique, technical talent.In a stroke of uncanny luck, Hiccup downs a flying dragon in the heat of battle, and his compassion meant to set the dragon free, rather than trying to prove himself to be a worthy viking man by killing it. And it's a rare specimen of a dragon too, which would have brought him instant glory. So a bond between man and mythical beast gets struck, and christened as Toothless, this is one pest who slowly grows into a pet, with Hiccup's secret rendezvous resulting in growing appreciation for the species, despite what the knowledge that his kinsman had compiled into a Dragon compendium which details facts all ending with an advisory on compulsory annihilation.The story here is the strength of the film, being witty, smart but never condescending nor insulting the intelligence of the audience. While most characters are caricatures, especially Hiccup's peers, a lot of effort have been put into creating the leads as multi-dimensional and full of heart, and I enjoyed how the characters are so open to their emotions, that it becomes a lot more real than the photo realistic 3D animation and effects. Sure there's the usual father-son misunderstanding and expectations, and how a zero turns to hero, or even the theme of fearing something that we don't fully comprehend, but it's the manner in which the usual got delivered, that made all the difference. Especially so for its anti-war stance, that all it takes is a little step back from the common battle-cry, and instead seek to be understood, by holding out an olive branch, and to understand first.For those who enjoy the mythology of the dragon creature, there are a number of ideas thrown up in the film that would make you nod in appreciation how these got conjured up for the film, and they worked wonders, even though they may be a tad predictable plot wise. And I'm betting that a lot of folks out there will take to Toothless, thanks to its "stitch"-ish design similar to Lilo and Stitch (since it's co-director Chris Sander's previous work) and huge saucer like eyes, plus a lovable demeanour built into the character that's always apprehensive, and mischievous. Being the creature that has no track record also helped, since it ropes you into a journey of friendship, bonding and discovery with Hiccup as to how powerful his new found friend can be, not to mention how symbiotic their relationship will evolve into as well.Action junkies will find the action sequences in the film faultless, and the 3D got specifically crafted for certain set action pieces that really had me ducking for cover, for once. Fights are incredible, and always accompanied either by humour that worked without the feeling that it was deliberate nor just tried too hard, coupled with the comedic voice talents such as Jonah Hill and Christopher Mintz-Plasse.How to Train Your Dragon is similar to last year's Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs - Long titles, great story, beautiful animation and a total delight. Highly recommended, and it goes into my list as contenders for best films of this year!
__label__10 Hiccup a young Viking befriends Toothless, a young dragon. This is the best movie I've seen since the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy. Virtually everything about it is wonderful. Rarely have I been so drawn in to an animated movie. The 3D aspects are thrilling and the movie has a great story, amazing animation, non stop action and a positive and constructive message. It made me want to go out and get a pet dragon. This movie is perfect for people of all ages. Now I know what a feel good movie is. This movie will make everyone feel good. Congratulations to all who contributed to this amazing film. It will make toy dragons a popular gift item. Hope to see it again and again. 3D at it's best.
__label__10 This has to be one of the best films I've seen with my family.The characters came to life and was instantly hooked.I've young children and they hardly flinched throughout. The draw to the screen was virtually magnetic.A definite must see for all the family, and the 3d version bought it to life, totally!!The story was well written, even though I must admit the start was a bit slow, but all in all well done dream-works. You've another winner on your hands here.p.s. can't stop talking about it, and its been a week since I've seen it- I can see Oscars in the not too distant future.
__label__10 There are a lot of excellent reviews out there, I will just discuss a single point. What got to me the most in this movie is the message I got out of it, I got it from a single line uttered by the hero and it just burned in my memory, it's about how when we look deep in the eyes of our enemies -the ones we fear the most- we will see that they are afraid of us just as we are afraid of them, we might realize their humanity and that they are not what we thought, monsters.This is definitely one of the best 2 animation movies this year, with Toy Story 3 being the other one, tough job for the academy awards this year, and hope this is the case every year.It's nice to see beautiful animation movies challenging Pixar's, it definitely benefits the viewer the most. How to train your dragon - Highly Recommended.
__label__10 Warning: this beautifully animated tale is highly addictive! As soon as it's over you'll immediately want to watch it again. I'm a grown man, but somehow this movie managed to ignore all the layers of cynicism and fake toughness we grown-ups tend to build around ourselves to cope with life; it cut right through to the wide-eyed, adventure-loving boy in me, right through to the heart. It's impossible not to fall in love with this movie, with these characters - especially if you love wild animals. This beautiful story of a very unlikely friendship between a boy who's a bit of an outcast and a dragon is just so well done; it's never cheesy, yet full of passion, and there's simply not a dull moment in it.And although it's very funny, this really isn't just an accumulation of gags and one-liners loosely held together by a paper-thin story: this is a great adventure and touching coming-of-age tale where the protagonist has an actual arc; it tells an intelligent and compelling story about people who are not just one-note characters, and they're wonderfully realized through the great voice-work of such actors as Jay Baruchel, America Ferrera, Gerard Butler and Craig Ferguson. The animation is fantastic, and there's so much playful creative energy at display in the design of the characters - especially in the design of all the different dragon species - that it's simply a joy to watch. 10 stars out of 10.
__label__10 This was one of the moments, when you feel so overwhelmed by a movie, that you want to see it again immediately.And when i think of how the whole movie-going began-a theater, full of annoying, noisy kids, 3-th graders mostly.But in the end, you realize you haven't spent any time listening to them, because you are so fascinated by the movie.You feel you are alone in the otherwise overcrowded theater.This feeling is very precious and when you realize it, you know you loved it.The whole idea is very interesting-alternate Dragon-fighting times, an era of vikings and so many kinds of winged creatures.The main character, Hiccup, is the son of a mighty Dragon fighter-Stoick, who is the vikings chief as well.He wants to teach his son the Dragon fighting ways of the vikings, but the boy befriends one of the Dragons, a very rare kind, almost impossible to find.He names it Toothless and they are in for a lot of adventures.The movie is very fresh, but solid and strong as well.And considering it is an animation, the voice performances are very good.That is also important.But the truly strongest sides of the movie are the heart of the movie-it is really a moving picture, but i think, that the level of maturity of the movie is higher, than DreamWorks's previous efforts like "Shrek".It is more meaningful, and although it is a Dragon-fighting story it is more real than most of the studio's previous tries in this genre and definitely a step up in animation.The feelings, the emotions, that were expressed throughout made this animation such a memorable experience, and i'm sure, i won't be able to forget it, at least not soon."How to Train Your Dragon" is a new, fresh, different start in the animation genre, with a lot of heart and emotions.I think, that's one of the best animations ever made.I recommend it to everyone-from parents with children to more experienced moviegoers and for the more mature audiences as well."How to Train Your Dragon" is the best movie this year so far, and a honestly moving picture.An animation masterpiece!*****/*****
__label__10 It's far better then all those Shrecks, Toy stories, Ratatoulies, Puss in boots, Mega-minds and other "renewing" concepts. Why? It's simple and honest. This movie doesn't TRY to be funny, modern, super-wise, and "for all". It's not one of those "hey-let's-make-a-movie-about-cat-who-is-a-super-spy" concepts. This movie JUST tells the simple yet very good story in the most proper way.I have seen a lot of 3D animated movies - American, European, Asian. This one hits 10 in my opinion, because it's by far the most complete vision enclosed in a 3D animated form. But - in addition - it's a pure fairy tale in the core. And I mean PURE - from the cores of fairy-telling, which is the most polite, elegant way of TEACHING important stuff. I think that 3D movie is not only craftsmanship behind creating artificial environment, animating believably, lighting sets with care, etc., etc. Like any other movie - it should be a well told story, which will left you ...CHANGED a bit (that's what fairy tales do, right?) Only those kind of stories will matter in your life. Rest is just "fun".'How to train your dragon' is a modern fairy tale. It's modern because - like other mainstream 3D movies - it's excellently crafted. We have here great animation (Toothless, the dragon is "made of life", so to speak - you actually just want to HAVE one), lighting and cinematography (splendid flight scenes, which take your breath away, and make you climb your chair), effects, etc.... But it's a fairy tale because - above all that - we have here a master degree directing by Dean DeBlois and Chris Sanders too. All those decisions made by them - from very basic (like the look of Toothless and other characters, or editing), to more important (like balancing the amounts of fear, sadness, seriousness and fun tones in the story) are marks of wisdom. And those decisions made a difference between this movie and "the rest". Those decisions crafted a SOUL in it. And achieving this "soul level" should be a goal of every director.Summing up: great movie in at least two aspects. Technically (character design, animation, cinematography, editing) and emotionally (great simple story with surprisingly 'non-hollywoodish' wise moral, fantastic heart-touching score by John Powell, and mature directing which guide you to be changed a bit after watching).Best achievement in 3D storytelling since Euclide :)
__label__10 There's a reason why I watched How To Train Your Dragon 7 times when it was still playing in theatres. No, it wasn't because I was young and didn't know how to better manage my money (although to be honest, it was a little bit of this). It's because HTTYD had a unique way of unfolding its story. A story about an unlikely relationship that truly moved my heart--between the now very well-known dynamic-duo, Hiccup and Toothless.Throughout the movie, you see each of them grow in awareness about one another, but also in awareness about themselves. This, I think, is what makes their relationship so much more than what meets the eye: before they even know it, they are accepting themselves for their own insecurities and learning not to judge others by first glance. To top off the many hidden lessons, the screenplay is nicely paced and super quirky/funny (a lot of laughs in all the right places). I also think John Powell did an excellent job with the soundtrack (and when I'm not watching the movie, I sometimes just listen to the soundtrack--yes, you could say I'm just a little obsessed). Ever since I was little to today, I have always managed to feel the same childish wonder and magic that I felt that first time I saw HTTYD in a movie theatre. And I can honestly say that I don't think that feeling will ever go away.
__label__10 Great, loved it so much. Amazing Good voice acting Loved the books Great author. Great story and other stuff. Animations was good, relate able characters and histrionically accurate. Captures the time of the great and wonderful empire of the vikings. One of the best movies of recent years
__label__10 What can i say, superb film: heads and shoulders above anything else I've seen this year. The 3D works brilliantly, you'll come out of this film truly believing that you can fly.The animation is excellent and the cinematography is so appropriate for this slightly darker animation.The opening sequence is brilliant - setting up all conflict, characters and setting at breathless pace and then quickly moving onwards to develop what becomes a surprisingly involved story of friendship, acceptance, love and believing in yourself!However, the dragon: "Toothless" is a standout feature of this film.. go to see it just for the scenes where he and Hiccup interact.SPOILER: One scene that stands out is where they learn to fly, the kinetic energy of that scene is unbelievably empowering, one of the few truly great examples of amazing cinema action in recent times.Some people complained that the side characters were underdeveloped, but I strongly disagree; if you watch closely, there's a lot more depth to them than you would have first thought.Only other complaint was that the vikings were Scottish, and their offspring American. But otherwise a fantastic feel good movie... I'll shut up now, leaving you to go see it (In 3D of course)
__label__10 I read the book before this movie ever entered theaters. I could tell right from the start that the storyline of the movie had nothing to do with the storyline of the book (except for the names of a few of the characters involved). I am surprised the book even mentions that it is now a "major motion picture" considering you can hardly even compare the two.In the movie, the Vikings must defend their food and land from attacking dragons, and the young Vikings are trained to become dragon slayers. Hiccup, the chief's son, is a weakling and a screw up who desperately wants to show his father that he is worth something.When Hiccup ends up catching the only dragon no Viking has ever caught or killed, a "Night Fury," he is unable to slay the dragon and instead ends up training him and keeping him for a pet. His dragon, whom he calls Toothless, gives him insight into how dragons think, and he is then able to defeat all the dragons in the sparring ring quite easily without slaying them.Of course, when it is discovered that Hiccup is now able to fight dragons because he has one for a pet, he is ostracized from the clan. His father, who wants nothing more than to find the dragons' lair and slay all dragons, uses Toothless to find the lair. Little does he know that there is a very large dragon living there, and they must now defeat it, aided by the very dragons he grew to hate. In the end, Hiccup is victorious, gets the girl he loves (Astrid), becomes a hero, gains respect from his peers, and changes Viking life as they know it by making pet dragons commonplace.The book is called "How to Train Your Dragon" because the characters must do just that. In order to be considered a true Viking, the characters must go and get their very own dragon from the dragon lair and train it. Only the chief's son (Hiccup) is suppose to get a "monstrous nightmare" dragon, however, one of the other characters gets one just to spite him.In the book, the characters learn that the only way to really train your dragon (that the Vikings know of) is to "yell at it," and Hiccup tries everything imaginable to train his dragon, all while being taunted and humiliated by his peers. Dragons in the book are ornery and decidedly un-loyal, and are also small enough to perch on shoulders.Toothless in the book is a whiny, annoying character who refuses to be trained, and is called Toothless because he IS entirely toothless. In fact, Toothless in the book is the most pathetic dragon anybody has ever seen; scrawny with no teeth (and is also a "common green" type of dragon, which is the most basic dragon any Viking can have). Hiccup makes up a new species to call him so that he is not made fun of, and assures everybody that he has the rarest type of dragon anybody can have.In the ending of the book, the characters must fight two huge dragons (much like in the movie) and their trained dragons aide them. Hiccup becomes a hero by coming up with and executing a plan to slay the large dragons. There is no female character in the book called Astrid, and the other Viking children are much more developed in the book and play a larger role.Overall, both the movie and the book are thoroughly enjoyable, but anybody who has read the book must not compare it to the movie unless they want to be disappointed. The movie has a slightly cookie-cutter and predictable plot (hero messes up, hero wins respect and girl in the end), but is triumphant and humorous with likable characters and lovely animation. There are several tear-jerking moments in the movie, as well as many laugh-out-loud, witty jokes. Overall, this movie is one for the DVD shelf, and will be liked by both children and adults.I think anybody who saw the movie without reading the books will be in for a surprise if they pick up the book series, and anybody who read the books and sees the movie can appreciate both.
__label__10 I remember watching the adorable Disney flick Lilo & Stitch at the theater back in the summer of 2002, after a truly exhausting week. The film - which tells the story of a small girl that befriends a wacky alien she mistakes for a dog - managed to put an enormous smile on my face, and made me forget of all my other worries for a while.While watching Dreamwork's new masterpiece, How to Train Your Dragon, I couldn't help but think about the similarities between both it and the aforementioned Lilo & Stitch. Toothless, the lead dragon character from the new film resembles the alien Stitch in shape as well as in behavior. Hiccup, the main human character which befriends Toothless despite warnings from his fellow Vikings, is a semi middle-age teenage version of the character Lilo. A trip visit to IMDb cleared things up for me - Dean DeBlois and Chris Sanders, the same people who directed the 2002 wonder (L & S) are behind the new and awesome How to Train Your Dragon.Fortunately enough, the similarities end here, and this is not a carbon copy of that film - even though the bottom line (tolerance toward people who are different, etc.) is the same. However, this new film takes place in the middle ages, in a small village which is repeatedly attacked by seemingly vicious dragons. Stoick (voiced by the almighty Gerard Butler) is the head of the village, a pumped up manly Viking who leads the counter-attacks against the fierce dragons. His teenage son, Hiccup (Jay Baruchel), however, doesn't quite fit in. Unlike the older Vikings, who speak in an Irish accent, he sounds like your average American teenager. He's also skinny and small and not exactly the material Viking warriors are made of.After a nightly battle between Vikings and dragons, Hiccup discovers Toothless, a supposedly lethal dragon, which has lost its ability to fly after being injured in the fight. Without anyone knowing, Hiccup slowly gains Toothless' confidence, and the two gradually learn to know each other. After the primal fears disappear, they realize they actually have a great deal to learn about one another – and that friendship is always better than hostility. Soon enough, Hiccup trains Toothless and learns how to approach dragons in general, something that doesn't quite fit in with his father, friends, and the society he lives in in general. But when a greater threat reveals itself, the Vikings and the dragons discover their only hope is to put aside their prejudice thoughts and fight together – with Hiccup and Toothless being their best hope for victory.Bottom line – How to Train Your Dragon is a major victory for the guys at Dreamworks. The film is truly inspiring, with a story that feels self-contained and complete, one that doesn't need to rely on pop culture references to succeed (unlike many of their other products). After a long period of mediocre products (in my opinion) that pale next to their Pixar counterparts, Dreamworks Animation finally came out with the winning formula – which contains just the right amount of relatable characters and true emotions, stunning visuals (including Nordic landscapes and various species of beautiful dragons) and a 3-D element (that uses InTru technology) that really works for a change.Despite the similarities to Lilo & Stitch, I came out feeling that Dean DeBlois and Chris Sanders actually managed to improve on their winning hit, and create the best 2010 release I've seen so far – and one of the best animated films to hit theaters in a long long time.
__label__10 When the poster was out for this movie I didn't expect much from it; I thought it would be a typical boring animation. By the time the movie was released I was hearing a lot about it, from friends and critics and shows on TV, so I decided to watch it, not in 3D to my dismay. At the beginning my expectations were high, seeing as there was quite a lot of hype about this movie, however I didn't expect it would be this good. It DEFINITELY exceeded my expectations. I loved it. There was something about it that made it different, and better, than any other animation movie I have watched. It had something for all watchers.Hiccup was innocent and yet had the "hero" characteristics in him just like any other movie would have (seeing as he is the main character). The dragons were bold, feared yet I wanted to reach out and pet them and possibly squeeze them with love - especially toothless.When the movie ended all I could say was "I WANT A DRAGON".
__label__10 Beautifully animated and scored. The voice cast was well chosen. The sound design for Toothless in particular is excellent.Friendship developments are nicely paced and heartwarming. The characterization of Toothless is really well done.The 'test drive' scene is captivating. The score syncs wonderfully with the visuals.One aspect of this picture that appeals to me is observational inquiry and trial & error. It's a great message to send to kids and adults alike.Fuel for the imagination. Wonderful in all respects.
__label__10 it's still managed to make me smile, laugh, tear up and excited every time. And I can still watch it a hundred more times, even at this age loooong past my teens, and still be as entertained as the first time round. This has the perfect dosage of wit, humor, drama, action, scattered bits of suspense and...the perfect team of the six riders. The twins never cease to bring that giggle back, even with their old pathetic jokes. I mean, who would've thought to make a voice cast of Jay Baruchel...which has now become almost iconic! Such a perfect amount of time spent on the build-up; especially the bonding; and the climax. It has one of the best (thought through) story lines. Congratulations to the Dreamsworks team on a job well done. And of course to Cressida Crowell for her creations.
__label__10 When I first heard that James Cameron wasn't going to be involved with the third installment to this fantastic series, I was less than pleased.  The thought of another director taking over the franchise kind of upset me, I just had to hope that they would find a director that could fill those rather large shoes.  I later heard that Jonathan Mostow was named director of T3 and was pleased due to being VERY impressed with both of his previous directorial efforts, "Breakdown" and "U-571", but of course I was still skeptical.So the film was finally released and of course I went and saw it opening weekend.  Let me tell you I was NOT let down!  I thought the film was truly fantastic!  I'm sure a lot of people will disagree with me and I'm sure plenty might even get upset with me, but I thought "Terminator 3" was just as good as both previous installments of the series.  They all had their pros and they all had their cons.I was at first a little uneasy with the idea of a female terminator.  But, after seeing the film and thinking about I've come to the conclusion that having a female terminator if a brilliant idea.  What would have an easier time infiltrating just about anything?  A gorgeous and sexy woman or a large intimidating man?  The woman, definitely!  Besides, Jonathan Mostow did such a fantastic job with the T-X that it just worked perfectly.The special effects in the film are truly amazing, looking even better than the effects in T2.  There were VERY few times where I thought it looked like obvious CG.  There is one scene in the first few minutes of the film that show a slew of Terminators walking around doing what they do that nearly brought tears to my eyes, it looked so awesome!  I won't get into the specifics, but the special effects are reason enough to see this film.The actors all did a fantastic job.  I thought Nick Stahl was an excellent replacement for Edward Furlong.  When I first heard Nick was taking over the role I didn't think he looked the part, but he really pulled it off.  In fact, in the end, I'm happier that Nick took over the role rather than Edward Furlong continuing his role, because I really don't think Edward looks the part anymore, he was fine as the young John Connor, but I don't think he'd work well as the John Connor of this film.  Claire Danes did a fantastic job as well, she pulled off a great job in the film and looks as beautiful as ever.  Kristanna Loken plays the part of the T-X very well, looking sexy as can be and doing a great job with her facial expressions and her limited dialogue.  I'll definitely be keeping an eye out for her future work.  Then of course, there's the great Arnold Schwarzenegger, reprising his role as The Terminator (T-800/T-101).  Arnold, again was excellent as the Terminator and didn't let me down.  There is also a very nice cameo by Earl Boen, the only other actor to reprise a role from the first two installments in the Terminator series.  Despite having very little screen time, he did a great job and I was very happy to see him in the film.Personally I thought the story in this film was great and very well thought out.  There are a few things that may have been overlooked or improperly explained, but nonetheless, this is a movie we're talking about here and there are bound to be a few plot holes, so I didn't let those little things affect my enjoyment of the film.The only thing I would complain about if I had to, is some of the humor in the film.  I won't deny that the jokes were funny, but I thought some were a little misplaced, this is, after all an R-rated sci-fi/action film.  There were only really two or three comedic moments that I thought should have been excised from the film, but otherwise I thought everything worked pretty well.I would definitely recommend this film to anyone that liked the previous Terminator films.  I would hope that you can enjoy this for what it is and not what James Cameron MIGHT have done had he directed the film.  Just because Cameron opted not to direct the film does not mean it's a bad film. Don't get hung up on the fact that Cameron didn't direct it, just sit back and enjoy the ride.  Thanks for reading my review, and be sure to check out my reviews for both previous films: "The Terminator" and "Terminator 2: Judgment Day".
__label__10 Guardians of the Galaxy is nothing short of an amazing movie. If there's anything I can say, it's that it is the best superhero movie I have seen. Not only does it have the impressive set pieces and enough action to last you a lifetime, it has an emotional core and you actually get to care about each and every single character. Overall this movie is filled with all the required thrills and spills and is a first class action movie. It also has a great mixture of comedic value and a deal of seriousness. The film's unlikely hero is Quill (Chris Pratt), an eccentric gunfighter in the Han Solo mould who we meet stealing a metal orb coveted by the evil warlord Ronan. When he dispatches his top assassin, the green- skinned Gamora (Zoe Saldana), to recover the artifact, the pair find themselves locked up, along with the galaxy's most unlikely bounty hunters – a gun-toting raccoon (Bradley Cooper) and his sidekick (Vin Diesel) who just happens to be a walking tree. All the actors do a great job at portraying there characters, they feel real beings. You get to know about them and their struggles and you become attached to them. Every character in the movie got their time to shine, especially Rocket Raccoon who is voiced perfectly by Bradley Cooper. Everyone is pitch perfect in their roles even Batista! For those that want specifics: effects were top notch, acting was excellent, story lines were compelling, the comedy was perfect 99.5% of the time and surprise there were a lot of one line typical superhero zingers that worked really well. What really can't be stressed enough is just how insanely fun and entertaining Guardians of the Galaxy is for literally its entire two-hour-plus run-time. I still have a hard time wrestling with who was my favorite actor in this. all in all, the film is brilliantly well done, action scenes are engrossing and genuinely done, you genuinely worry about certain characters and I for one was thrilled with it. Go see this.
__label__10 I entitle my review A New Hope as I walk out of the cinema feeling like I have just watched the Star Wars of our generation!As a huge Marvel fan (both comics and film) I was delighted to hear this film was getting made with the perfect choice of Guardians and what a perfect cast to play them. The biggest surprise for me was Dave Bautista who I thought was only cast for his size but his delivery was spot on for Drax. Chris Pratt was hilarious whilst still excellent at delivering some of the films most emotional scenes.CGI in this film was super, there's nothing I hate more than too much CGI in a film but it was so good in Guardians that I was completely lost in it. Never have a seen space look so good, the battles were incredible and Groot and Rocket never looked out of place (aside from being a tree and raccoon).Gunn is the perfect director for this, his tone, his balance of comedy, action and emotion blended perfectly and directing GOTG would have been no easy job. DC are still trying hard to get Justice League going, Marvel just made a film with a talking tree and Raccoon and it was AWESOME!!!Not a bad performance all round and comic fans will be happy with certain nods and winks scattered throughout. Probably my top Marvel film yet, it has the fresh new feeling the first Iron Man had with all the action and humour of The Avengers. 10 stars from me, even if your not a comic book or sci-fi fan, this movie has something for everyone.
__label__10 I remember like it was yesterday when watching guardians of the galaxy I was 9 years old when the movie came out I was honestly really excited for the movie even though I was not familiar with the superhero's and I do have to admit I think guardians is better than avengers there's something about guardians I like better than the avengers is how the guardians met each other now let's get into movie first of all the movie has a fantastic soundtrack like with opening of Star lord dancing and how guardians met each other and when I heard they were making a movie like the avengers I was hyped my favorite character out the characters had to be rocket raccoon because he is funny for example when gamora cut one of groot's arm groot was sad and then rocket said it grow back you stupid idiot quit whining the cgi is wonderful and the special effects are amazing eventually the characters get into prison and the characters are trying to get out this when the movie gets interesting when the team are discussing a plan to get out the prison but then groot remove the battery and then they fight the security for the prison Also forget to mention Ronan in the movie but he is a excellent villian like when Star lord is fighting him in the final scene of the movie and the saddest part of the movie is that griot sacrificed himself for the team which is a pretty sad death it happens at the end of the movie honestly guardians of the galaxy is also one of my favorite 5 mcu movies and my favorite movie of 2014 so if you love the avengers you going to love the guardians of the galaxy it's a great movie trust me.
__label__10 Great expectations before the film, definitely, and they really paid off. Guardians of the Galaxy is one of the best Marvel films to date, and a really good sci-fi at that too. The film is strong on so many levels, outstanding characters, great worlds, is emotional and humorous.Peter Quill, or Star Lord as he likes to call himself, is a quick-witted man of Earth thrown into the far reaches of galaxy, who has stolen an artifact that everyone seems to want. By accident he stumbles upon four other characters, Gamora the assassin, Drax the Destroyer, Rocket the enhanced raccoon and Groot the humanoid tree, and the five of them form an unlikely team. The characters are really well presented, their emotional core is strong and back stories engaging. In short, they're interesting and easy to like. All of them have great moments and keep us wanting for more and more. Rocket, in particular, steals the show with his anger management problems and bright one-liners. It was great to see a group of people each with their own agenda come together, this dynamic worked really well. Star-Lord carried a lot of this weight, and was very sympathetic.The film doesn't take itself very seriously, which was refreshing to see after also great yet darker themes of Thor and Captain America 2's. Guardians has a lot of laughs, witty dialogue, characters rub off on each other (and the audience), writing is perfect. The film is so entertaining, non-stop adventure but also knows when to balance with more dramatic themes. Scenery and worlds are spectacular, visual effects top notch. As a reader of the Guardians comics it was great to see some smaller motifs thrown in that may not be necessarily caught by regular viewers, but which the comic book readers will definitely be thankful for too.All in all, Guardians of the Galaxy was an awesome watch. Amazing characters, vivid cinematography, great dialogue, lots of humor, soundtrack was nice, story exciting. This wonderful adventure and its captivating characters will be in mind for a long time.
__label__10 (Rating: 12A, 121 mins) Written by Zen Terrelonge Starring – Chris Pratt, Zoe Saldana, Bradley Cooper, Dave Bautista, Vin DieselIf you've seen the trailers for Guardians of the Galaxy, you'd be within your rights to think Marvel Studio execs have been hitting the bottle hard or taking LSD.The film revolves around a group of dysfunctional but goodhearted criminals – think Robin Hood's Merry Men of the future – comprising human thief Peter Quill aka Star-Lord (Pratt), green assassin Gamora (Saldana), talking raccoon Rocket (Cooper), knife-wielding Drax the Destroyer (Bautista), and walking tree Groot (Diesel).Like the Avengers, the Guardians get off to a false start but soon unite over a common cause, namely, the galaxy being obliterated by genocidal maniac, Ronan – not Keating – the Accuser.Ah yes, the old, let's-exterminate-everyone-for-the-mistakes-of-their-forefathers ploy.But unlike Avengers Assemble, Guardians of the Galaxy oozes offbeat originality and frankly, it's the most unique and delightful film Marvel has created to date.It's a hell of an achievement given the extensive movie library the company is building up and when you consider the characters aren't household names like 'big three' Iron Man, Thor and Captain America, but Marvel seems well aware of that fact with the final production risky to say the least.The film opens in 1988, which is when Quill is abducted from Earth, and 26 years later we see he's become a crooked intergalactic outlaw with a taste for all things shiny, valuable and not his.Given the distinct decade in which he was taken, his cassette player and mixtape of 70s and 80s tracks are laced throughout the film, which creates a quirky yet grounded quality in the midst of all of the dazzling interstellar warfare that takes place along the way.In addition to the soundtrack, jokes and comedy have never been more of a feature in a Marvel film – perhaps Iron Man 3 was the closest – as gags are thrown into the unlikeliest of scenarios to lessen the tension, and I would imagine, to really differentiate itself from Avengers Assemble, Star Wars and Star Trek, which by comparison are left looking very sombre.That said, if you were going to compare Pratt's Quill to someone, the character is quite reminiscent of Chris Pine's Captain James Kirk – smart, womanising, reckless leaders, who eventually find their feet.The editing is supreme and makes each bit of dialogue super-sharp and tight, so when the infamous five are bickering or talking generally, the repartee all feels really clean and natural without being awkward or forced.Thor can be stubborn, Iron Man can be arrogant and Captain America is considered too stiff, but all of the Guardians bring even more wildly different qualities to the table and offer some diversity that doesn't ever grate or bore, which wouldn't have been possible without such excellent casting.Meanwhile, the film is very much in the here and now, with Quill's backstory the only one that truly gets a look-in, which creates a sense of intrigue about his colleagues who only have their pasts hinted at, meaning sequel fodder.There's just no way of knowing where you're going and tonally the movie delivers a piece of everything and it's done big and without hesitation.Guardians may have been a gamble, but I'm Grooting for it to Rocket to the top.10/10
__label__10 I know, I know. This will incontrovertibly attract a lot of hate from die-hard Dark Knight fans, but guess what? I'm one of those who thinks Nolan is the epitome of how to make a perfect superhero spectacle. Or at least, I was until tonight. This film will blow your mind. Quite literally, it is jam-packed with edge-of-your-seat action thrills and pure comedic gold. Don't be expecting a moody companion piece like that of Nolan's trilogy, or Man of Steel. It keeps more in touch with Avengers, although it's a lot funnier and really builds upon the upcoming Infinity Gauntlet arc. The actors are incredible, matching the character developments, the dialogue and action sequences are spectacular and the visual effects should surely earn a nod come Oscar time, as I'd personally put them on par with those seen in the recent Dawn of the Planet of the Apes. The run length compliments the well-scripted pacing of the movie itself, whilst plenty of interesting secondary characters litter Guardians with an ensemble cast that has exceeded anything yet seen in the Marvel/DC movie worlds. I don't pertain to the DC versus Marvel argument, but this masterpiece alone has certainly put Marvel on the front foot in terms of cinema outings, far surpassing the very enjoyable Man of Steel and, I believe, edging out Nolan's trilogy and then some. I thoroughly recommend this for any with a borderline sci-fi/superhero love, and advise you to remain for the tantalising post-credits scene, although many of the non-comic fans might not get the references. Easily a perfect ten out of ten for me.
__label__10 Well if the universe has the corner stone of idiots this is it. Guardians of the galaxy comprised of five dolts who come together in the face of total annihilation from what is known as the Infinifty stone. A relic of ancient past where its properties are made up of the building blocks that created the universe itself. It could be used to create or to destroy. Between planets is a man named Quill who at a younger age was abducted from earth by an alien trash race lead by Yondu Udonta (Micheal Rooker) after his mother died from severe cancer.Some fifteen years later he becomes a relic hunter and not always by legal means. During his last trek to an abandoned planet he comes across this stone housed in an orb but is confronted by a league of trackers lead by Korath (Djimon Hounsou) who works for Ronan (Lee Pace). Ronan is by no means a nice guy. In fact he only wants the stone for revenge against another race who used the stones power to alter the natural means of creation but was destroyed in doing so. Taking ronan's people with them he vowed revenge at any cost.Now with quill's group is Drax (Dave Bautista) Gamora (Zoe Saldana) Groot (Voiced By Vin Diesel) and last is the over emotional Rocket (Bradley Cooper) who looks like a raccoon. Together they put aside their differences... that is to stop trying to kill each other and put an end to ronan from destroying the entire universe in the process. In many ways this movie holds a great deal of emotions from beginning to end. Passionate, anger, betrayal, the kind of self centred pessimism one looks for in another in order to get their point across no matter the cost.It is a big universe where many alien life forms dwell including Quill's own father who had kept his identity a secret from his family. Quill only learnt his entire being is half Terran, and half earth. Knowing this he decides to change over a new leaf to become a guardian with his new found friends and try to get along without throwing a fit. I had a great time watching this with the new characters, new action, and wonderful retro music that just somehow fit to quill's character. What I also found interesting is seeing how the other half lives out there in the deepest parts of space. Come to think of it they are not all that dissimilar from anyone else.Each has a family, dreams, goals, even opportunities which presents themselves evil or not. I give it ten stars for originality, music, special effects, and wonderful actors including an Oscar winner Benicio Del Toro who plays the pawn master that appraises the stone's value. Guardians of the galaxy is much better than Galaxy Quest for its story line, and optimistic characters. You couldn't take your eyes off of any alien in this film it is that well made. Highly recommended to all ages above 14. Excellent addition to the summer.
__label__10 This movie was the best written, acted, visual effected, etc. movie. This movie was the best movie I have ever seen. I am a huge Christopher Nolan fan and this movie was his finest. Matthew McConaughey turned in his best performance of his lifetime. Anne Hathaway was an amazing supporting actress and compared to her performance in Les Miserables, I have no idea how she didn't get an Oscar for this. The visual effects were more than just Oscar worthy. They were pioneering. I have never seen anything like it. One thing I would recommend is having a little previous knowledge about space. Not like Einstein stuff though. I would recommend you see this movie as fast as you can if you are a Nolan fan or not. I give this movie a rating of 97 out of 100.
__label__10 I judge a movie by how long it takes me to realize I need the bathroom, how long the movie can hold my interest and how convincing the events unfolding are. Well, I watched this movie all the way through with no bathroom breaks. My interest was grabbed from the start and held all the way through. Being old enough, and lucky enough to have watched the premiere of 2001 A Space Odyssey - and viewed it several times since - of course I made comparisons, and there were a few, but this movie tells an excellent stand alone story that is both riveting and believable. I'm not going to give away any secrets but anyone who watches the last five minutes or so without a lump in their throat and a tear in their eye, well you're a critic, you're not enjoying the movie because you're too busy looking for bloopers and faults. Were there bloopers and faults? The darn movie was so riveting if there were any I didn't notice them!
__label__10 I have been a cinema lover for years, read a lot of reviews on IMDb and everywhere, and never found the right movie to write my first review. I always thought I would wait for THE movie.And this is IT!When I first heard that Nolan was preparing a sci-fi movie, I felt like a kid again, waiting for his Christmas gift under the tree. I knew it would become a classic. And I'm sure it will.First of all, it is incredibly beautiful to watch. Honestly, it was so beautiful that I felt like I was sucked into the movie. The way Nolan decided to show some scenes really remind me of 2001 A Space Odyssey (actually many things will probably remind you of this movie). We can feel the talent of Christopher Nolan, just by looking at the way it is filmed. The techniques he used contribute to create that visual environment in a believable way.The sound environment is just mesmerizing. It is a very important part of the movie, because some scenes take place in space, and Noland just found the right way to use sound. The soundtrack (made by the great Hans Zimmer) is breathtaking, epic, amazing, unreal. I could find a lot more adjectives to qualify it, but you have to hear it to understand how epic they are. These two important parts (image and sound) create a stunning atmosphere. You will forget you are in a movie theater, and you will be lost in space, sucked into the adventures of this new Space Odyssey, begging for more. It is a truly unique experience. I can say that I have never felt something like that in a movie theater (at least not for the past ten years).Then, of course, the cast. First of all, Matthew McConaughey. I discovered this actor in Tropic Thunder, but he didn't really convince me, though he was quite funny. Then I saw Dallas Buyers Club. Since that movie, I love him. In this movie... Well, he is the movie. I exaggerate a bit, since there are other great actors (some even unexpected with a special guest) who play extremely well. But he is just what was needed to feel the human part of the story (which is very important in Interstellar). He is capable of making us feel so many different emotions all along the story, as a father, as a human. Anne Hathaway was very convincing, all together the actors managed to create some harmony, which makes the human interactions credible. Caine, Chastaing and Affleck are a perfect choice. And then there is... The special guest, I will call him "X". His role, which could be seen as a minor role, is actually much more important than that. He proves, once again, that he is a great actor. Watch and see.And finally, the scenario/story. I won't spoil anything here; I'll just try to convince you how great it is. Nolan is known to revolutionize everything when he tries a new genre in cinema. Well, once again he did it. With The Dark Knight he revolutionized the superhero genre. With Interstellar he's revolutionizing the sci-fi genre in cinema. From what I heard, he worked with a physicist (in gravitational physics and astrophysics) to help him with that movie. And we can feel and see it. During the fifties, Asimov laid the foundations of modern science fiction. Lucas and Kubrick did the same in cinema. Today, Nolan is laying the new foundations of the genre in cinema, proving that cinema is still at the beginning of what can be done (brace yourselves my friends, we have not seen anything yet). Why? Well, simply because we only know a few things about space, some things can't be proved for the moment, so we can use theory, and make the best of it. That is exactly what Nolan did. He used theories that exist today, and made a movie about mankind, about pioneers, about humanity, about us.Because, in spite of all the sci-fi aspect, it is a story about humanity. McConaughey, Hathaway, and mainly "X", will managed to convince you about that.My rating for this movie can only be a 10, because in itself, it is a beginning for a new kind of cinema. It IS a classic. Those who say "we can't compare this movie to 2001 Space Odyssey, nor can we compare Nolan to Kubrick" are wrong. We can, and we should. Talented people don't live only in the past, some genius live today, among us. And Nolan is one of them. Many say that he is overrated. I truly don't think so. Only time will answer that.This is the sci-fi movie of the decade, and probably the best movie Nolan ever made. Just go for it, without a second thought.
__label__10 Interstellar - ReviewCertain things in life are precious. Very precious. And so was the Film for me.Why you might ask?Well seldom do i get the chance where i find myself sitting in a cinema anxious and intrigued by what might come. In a time where trailers are omnipresent and going to the movies without having seen one seems unreasonable, outright stupid to some i had the magical chance to find myself in front of the IMAX on a cold November night with 2 tickets to Interstellar. My only knowledge was that Nolan directed it and McConaughey stars in it.The images were brilliant the acting was top notch and everything was blended together by Hans Zimmer and his Music. 169 minutes flew by me with my eyes fixed on the screen and my heart racing. And there it was.. The ending. I couldn't believe it . I was reliving, rethinking the movie while the credit scenes rolled enjoying the moment, the smell of popcorn, my comfortable seat and what do i see next to me? Ninety percent of the people in the cinema rushing outside after the first second of the credit scenes. .. .Well apparently people enjoy movies different than i do. Maybe i should start watching trailers again :).
__label__10 The film begins by establishing at his own rhythm its ambitions: men overexploited land resources, which is why the only goal they have left is to survive. This life is not enough for Cooper, brilliantly played by McConaughey who gave body and soul to this character. But all of this wouldn't hold without the total control of Christopher Nolan, based on the languishing soundtrack by Hans Zimmer, the luminous and impenetrable photography of Hoyte Van Hoytema, and the sincerity of Nolan's directing. He manages to film the characters and to find the right cut at the right time, always in harmony with Hans Zimmer's soundtrack, to give the film an aspiring and inspiring dimension that went missing for many many years. Thus we are transported into the same cockpit that Cooper, we feel the same remorse that he can already feel, we feel the same gravity, and we feel the same fear of the unknown melted with the force of his will. All of this is brilliantly illustrated in a very simple directing choice, which from my point of view is the decisive impetus of the film: to directly jump from when Cooper leaves in his truck, leaving his family behind him, to Endurance taking off. This simple editing decision allows Nolan to give an original movement to his film, and the musical crescendo makes us physically feel the sentimental break between two parts of the film.You don't necessarily have to understand it immediately : The film will raise questions in you, such as : what is it to be a human being, is there some physical limitations to our humanity, how far could we be willing to go to determine knowledge, is there other dimensions that we can not access to, and above all: what is the nature of this intact and immutable bond that unites us to others wherever we are in the universe ? Is this bond only intelligible, or is it also tangible ? All these questions resonate in harmony in Nolan's Interstellar. Interstellar is itself a crescendo, increasing sensitivity and creativity. I use the term deliberately because it goes crescendo with the soundtrack by Hans Zimmer, which is one of the most beautiful music ever scored for a sci-fi movie. We are witnessing a perfect musical arrangement, a total symbiosis, a bit like the music of Gravity which had understood very well how to match the image and the rhythm of a sequence to its own musicality. Zimmer's crescendos are giving a new powerful breath to every new scene, whether it is in visually powerful & intense moments or in more intimate moments; it intrudes into our momentary feelings and sensations, and manages to extend them, sometimes almost to choking, before resting on the balance of the film frame along with our mind spell-bounded. I have seen all the talent of the director that I knew he was outside the norm, but whom I did not know his capacity to reinvent itself. Because this is it: Interstellar is not an action movie, not really a blockbuster, and it goes not entirely but mostly again the expectations of common people. It's much more than that. This is much more than just a sci-fi movie. It is unlike any of his previous films. Some hoped to see Interstellar as Christopher Nolan's best film, and they were disappointed that this was not the case. And indeed, THIS IS NOT THE BEST FILM of Christopher Nolan. Because in a way, IT IS HIS FIRST FILM. I'm not saying that Interstellar is not as good as his other films, it goes beyond all of them. But to me Interstellar is the first film of a new stage in Nolan's filmography ; it is a masterpiece as it the beginning of a work ahead. Interstellar is the proof that Nolan has finally managed, despite all the expectations that were placed on him after the success of The Dark Knight, to move away from his own reputation to create a personal work, original, humble, sincere and deeply, meticulously, measured.Now, in this third act of the film, it all comes to life with unparalleled strength. Nolan poses and answers questions that raise others. But he focuses his attention on the great mystery of love, that emotional bond that can unite men and sometimes separate them. But Nolan is the only one that can successfully speak of love from a being to another in a film that mainly takes place in a another galaxy. From my point of view, only Solaris by Steven Soderbergh (2002), unfortunately neglected by the audience, was able to accomplish that. Interstellar is based on a premise which is the following : from terrestrial dust to the depths of space and time, we can never be separated from who we are as individuals and as a species, as we always leave a part of ourselves "behind" us. In other words, I could say that this is a human story, and even if we go as far as we want to, if we travel through the universe believing that we can be detached of the one we are fond of, we will only get closer to them. Because the separation, and thus the distance and time, can only ultimately reinforce the relationship between the people who really love each other. Because it is going to the end of the world, when we reach the end of ourselves, that we reach the singularity of the "black hole beyond the horizon" * : it is our humanity. No, I wasn't been able to find any bad flaws in the film. Not one, and I'm still looking. After all, Interstellar is like gravity, "all it takes is a little push ! "*you'll have to see the movie to figure that one out.Félix Tardieu, November 1st, 2014
__label__10 'Interstellar' was incredible. The visuals, the score, the acting, were all amazing. The plot is definitely one of the most original I've seen in a while. Most of the critic reviews have said that some bits are a little too unbelievable, but I have to disagree. Yes, there were some parts that were definitely in the "fi" part of sci-fi. But the thing is, 'Interstellar' deals with concepts that we know very little about. We have no idea what the 4th or 5th dimension is like, or what it would be like to go through a wormhole or a black hole. I don't think it's fair to call something unbelievable, when we have absolutely no idea what WOULD be believable in those circumstances. Either way, excellent writing from the Nolan brothers. The visuals were outstanding, and will no doubt be nominated for an Oscar. The performances were excellent, though nothing Oscar worthy, as is the case with most of Nolan's films ('The Dark Knight' being the obvious exception). Hans Zimmer's score was amazing and blended perfectly with the film. All in all, 'Interstellar' is an excellent movie, which I personally think is Nolan's most beautiful film to date.
__label__10 All is amazing. I can't describe anything. It's a film that leads you to think about yourself and your plans in your life. I am a real series/movies' lover and... This was awesome.
__label__10 Love is the one thing that transcends time and space... New creation of Christopher Nolan's genius, whose name is now known to everyone. His films are waiting with a special look, because it offers something that every day, unfortunately, less and less can be found in the world of mass cinema - an interesting spectacle, filled with meaning, ideas and emotions. At this time, Christopher decided to send us not to the world of dreams, and even not on the dark streets of Gotham City. No, now he send us to the journey to, and perhaps beyond the boundaries of the possible and impossible, through the curvature of space and time, in other worlds. And you won't forget this trip, this can be assured. I was madly waiting for Interstellar's release. And then, finally, I was able to see this Beauty - at the premiere in my coutry on October, 29. It was incredibly exciting. It was a delight. It was unforgettable. It was gorgeous. Nolan once again amazes the viewer's imagination by his painting. Journey to the brink of infinity, the line where humanity has never set, acts as either the first-born purpose and a background of emotional history about the father and the daughter. A loving father who mankind need to help, but that he should leave his children, and a loving daughter who doesn't want to let her dad in the infinity darkness. Starting from the very first frame and ending with the closing credits, a new picture of Nolan will absorb you completely, forcing stare at the screen during the whole action, because it's all so exciting and interesting that escape becomes physically impossible. No, this three hours won't fly quickly for you. You'll feel every emotion, every event, every character. You will not look how the main characters travel through the universe, because the movie experience in this film is so excellent that you will be on board of "Endurance" starship and travel between the worlds with the main characters by yourself.The emotional core of this story is the relationship of Matthew McConaughey's character and his daughter - Mackenzie Foy' and Jessica Chastain' character. And the acting work of these three artists in "Interstellar" impress the most. McConaughey was acting really great, and this is one of the most emotional, if not the most emotional role of his life. All the drama and tragedy of the relationship of father and daughter in this film will not leave anyone indifferent. Anne Hathaway, Wes Bentley, Michael Caine, Casey Affleck, Ellen Burstyn and other actors also coped with their roles and presented the film's supporting characters very realistic. I would particularly like to note a small but important in this story role of Matt Damon, a character who has received quite memorable. If we talk about the characters, it should be noted also two robots that accompanied our heroes in this difficult journey. One of them adds a touch of humor in the film, which mitigates constantly depressing, dramatic, and sometimes really dark atmosphere.The script of the film is very well combined the history of space exploration and the relationship between Cooper and Murph. The story is complex and complicated, is based on real scientific theories by Kip Thorne, and indeed contains a reference to the "Space Odyssey" and other sci-fi pictures. This story about true love, about loyalty, forgiveness, fraud, hard decisions, and much more. And it is designed so that leaves a lot of room for the imagination of the viewer. It's also possible to notice some structure allusion to another Nolan's work - Inception. The story and visuals are combined just perfectly in Interstellar.Hans Zimmer's score, written by him on the basis of only one letter from Nolan, hold the key: "Once we become parents, we can't help but look at ourselves through the eyes of our children", deserves a special praise. On this basis, Hans managed to write just incredible soundtrack that perfectly harmonizes with the history and the visual side of the picture. And this work of the composer is really different from the previous ones. It is executed in a different style from another subject in its base. Very impressive work, which will be pleasantly listened again and separate from the film itself. Visual range of the picture is incredibly beautiful and circuses. The "Endurance" itself, new worlds, insanely beautiful and mysterious space, wormholes, black holes, and travel through them, folds of time and space are arranged so that is simply breathtaking. I would like to thank all those who contributed to the creation of a visual of this film. It must be seen. That mastery with which this is done, not just words. In the visual pattern also has some references to the Kubrick's "Odyssey", and they are pleasing to the eye.Many thanks to Christopher Nolan for having given us such an incredible movie, which once again proved to us that the cinema is Nolan's life. "Interstellar" is a film that wins the hearts of the audience not only with its sci-fi splendor, but also an emotional story that lies at its very heart. This film is not only about the discoveries, space exploration and the final frontier of mankind, but also about the relationship of father and daughter, who were in a difficult situation in life when one has to leave the other in the name of a goal that can not be underestimated. So, with what Nolan's genius unfolds before us this action is beyond praise. Combining the story, filled with not only real science fiction, but the true human values ​​and emotions, outstanding and very emotional performances, breathtaking visuals, epic and dramatic soundtrack, Christopher Nolan breathed the life into this film by his directing to create something truly masterpiece again. "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night... Rage, Rage Against The Dying Of The Light."
__label__10 Just watched Interstellar in imax 70mm. Science Fiction fans can read on, everyone else can skip. Movie is a visual masterpiece. Like his earlier movies, Christopher Nolan once again proved, how big a movie can be! There were some shots,which made audience go crazy..Some scenes were as epic as 2001: A Space Odyssey. Do not go into the theatre expecting an action packed cerebral thriller. This one is not for action fans. At times, movie go highly sentimental( Matthew McConaughey does what he is best in and supposed to). I recommend this movie to all the Sci-Fi fans out there, make sure you go in group of sci-fi nuts!! Do not go with the hype..Go, sit back and enjoy. Just like Inception, this movie will be known as great after few months(I know people who said Inception was a crap when it released, and after few months rating it 10/10 in IMDb :D). I don't wanna spoil anything(If you want PM me). Also, make sure you go to the best theatre close to you. (If you loved Donnie Darko, 2001: A Space Odyssey, this is the one for you, Get ready to get mind blown!!) Interstellar Movie is EPIC in all sense!!
__label__10 I mentioned place of the movie on my lists at below.Movie: Perfect (#9)Screenplay: Very Good (#8)Film Editing: Perfect (#4)VFX: Perfect (#5)SFX: Very Good (#17)Cinematography: Perfect (#3)Overall Acting Performance: Very Good (#25)Original Scores: Very Good (#13)Art Direction & Set Decoration: Very Good (#11)Makeup: GoodCostume Design: Very Good_________________________________First was Inception and I think it is the best Sci-Fi Movie ever. This one is more detailed and more realistic. Of course it has unrealistic parts because this is Sci-Fi movie. But the end of the movie is silly I think. They had to finish the movie but they doesn't had enough time I think. But we didn't understand Cooper Station at that short time. But except that everything was perfect. VFX and Cinematography was perfect. This movie is the answer of "Will good movies come after 2010?" and the answer is yes.
__label__10 (((WOW)))...!!!It's almost impossible to put in words, but we have to try and give everyone what he truly deserve.In my modest opinion, Interstellar is the best Sci-Fi in human history. Believe it or not. It's the simple and the complicated, It's the usual and the different, It's the mind and the heart, It's an emotional and psychological journey through the unknown which has its own stunning visuals. It's an original story and thought-provoking masterpiece.Every single time with him, you just got crazy about his ideas, astonished by his mind games and inspired when he talks to the heart.Back then, he was an ambitious young director. And with his capabilities made his own way straight through the world. Now, he is an icon and a legend of directing. He is Christopher Nolan...Really guys, what's wrong with this guy ?!! what's going on inside his head ?!!It's our job to honor the honorable. Please, Just keep the rating UP, why ? Because Chris. and Interstellar deserve it.
__label__10 The most amazing thing about this movie is its pioneering spirit. They look at night sky and see a map of foreign worlds that need to be visited. The movie presents lot of mysteries of the world in visually fascinating way. Those robots there are amazing as well, complete opposite of Marvin from Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. I love them. The emotional layer is as great as it gets. You may very well find yourself crying possibly more than once. Finally the imagination was mind blowing rolling around the edges of the things you are yet willing to accept as possible. It all feels very real like you are right there travelling across the Universe encountering strangest parts of physics.
__label__10 Wowser! This Christopher Nolan film was presaged with such marketing hype that I went in with pretty low and cynical expectations. But I was frankly blown away with it.Just about everyone raves about Christopher Nolan's work, and you look back at his Filmography and it makes for a pretty impressive resume: from Memento via the (rather over-hyped imho) Dark Knight Batman series-reboot through to Inception, one of my favourite films of all time. For me, Interstellar is right up there with Inception for thought-provoking, visually spectacular and truly epic cinema.We start in familiar 'Day after Tomorrow" territory, with mankind having in some way – not entirely explained – messed up the planet. As I understood it (and the film probably does require multiple watches with – see comments below – subtitles=on) the rather clever premise is that the world's food supplies are being progressively destroyed by a vindictive 'blight'. This delivers the double whammy of destroying mankind's provisions but also, by massive reproduction of the organism, progressively depleting the Earth's oxygen. For some reason – again, which I didn't get on first viewing – this is accompanied by massive dust storms. It is a morbid bet as to what is going to get the mid-West population first: starvation, lung disease or suffocation. Matthew McConnaughey plays the widowed Cooper, an ex-NASA drop out turned farmer given the opportunity by mission-leader Professor Brand (an excellent Michael Caine) to pilot a NASA mission. The goal is to punch through a mysterious wormhole in space where they suspect, through previous work, that a new home for mankind could be found.The first part of the film is set on and around Cooper's farm, setting in place one of the emotional wrenches at the heart of the film: that Cooper in volunteering for the mission and having to leave behind his elderly father (John Lithgow, again superb) and young children Murph (aged 10) and Tom (aged 15) whilst recognising that danger for him comes not just from the inherent risks involved but from the theory of relativity that could change everything, time-wise, for when he returns.Cooper is supported on the mission by a team of scientists including Brand's daughter played by a love-struck Anne Hathaway, who again shows she can act.To say any more would spoil what is a voyage of visual and mental discovery. (However, I would add that it is good to see that the character that plays my namesake Dr Mann (in a surprise cameo) is equally good looking! LOL).In terms of plus points, where do I start? The visuals are utterly stunning. Whilst reminiscent in places of Kubrick's "stargate" from 2001, the similarity is only passing. The film adds a majesty and scale to space that surpasses wonder. Elsewhere there are some interesting visual effects: this might have just been me of course, but after the dramatic launch there was something about the camera moves during the first scenes of weightlessness that made me feel genuinely nauseous.Equally stunning is Hans Zimmer's score which is epic and (in places) very VERY loud. The film certainly doesn't "go quietly into the night"! When matching the noise of the score/choir to the sound effects in the launch sequence the combination is ear-bleedingly effective. This must be a strong contender for the soundtrack Oscar for 2014. One quibble, again 2001 related, is that Zimmer uses the last chord of Also Sprach Zarathustra in the score sufficiently often that one hopes Richard Strauss's estate receives some royalties! The acting is top notch: I've already mentioned Caine and Lithgow, but McConnaughey, Hathaway and Jessica Chastain are all great. A particular shout-out should go to Mackenzie Foy as the young Murph, who is magnetically charismatic and just brilliant in the role.Above all, Nolan's direction is exquisite. The film has a slow build on earth (which adds to the lengthy running time) but defines the characters and primes the plot perfectly. And some of the editing cuts – again, Cooper's farm departure/launch sequence overlay is a great example – are superb in building the mood and the tension.I've decided that I am an extremely tough reviewer and for me a 10 star film is a rarity indeed. Where I could have knocked off a star was in some of the dialogue on the soundtrack, which was pretty inaudible in places: McConnaughey in particular with his general mumbling and strong southern accent is indecipherable in places. I look forward to the DVD subtitles. And one of the character's dying words – delivering a key plot point in the film – was completely lost to me (but thankfully later restated). Whilst the expansive plot is highly ambitious, the end of the film, playing fast and loose with physics I fear, requires a gravity-defying suspension of belief (although I guess the same could equally be said of 2001: A Space Odyssey).However, the film has stayed so firmly lodged in my mind for 24 hours I will make a rare exception to my rating 'rule'. Overall, this is a top-notch Sci-Fi film. And a final word: PEOPLE THIS IS A MUST SEE ON THE BIG SCREEN! (If you enjoyed this review, please see my archive of previous reviews at bob-the-movie-man.com and sign up for future notifications. Thanks).
__label__10 chris Nolan a delivered another original story with with less special effects its more old school stuff with flight simulators done instead of geeen screens with space painted on the outside everything you see in this movie is real as your going to get so here starts the story of a farmer called cooper played by Matthew mconnaughey another Oscar performance who was a N.A.S.A pilot and his family he finds out that there is a problem with earth food sources and stumbles upon a plan to save earth and t leave earth for another world with his daughter he loves and his daughter tuned into other worldly scientific things that I wont explain you have to see this to understand the films relevance on finding a solution to the worlds problems there is a solution in here house were signs are there but I wont make sense until the end he has really turned the corner in his career what a RenascenceFirst of all, it is incredibly beautiful to watch. Honestly, it was so beautiful that I felt like I was sucked into the movie. The way Nolan decided to show some scenes really remind me of contact and parts of inception you see in this movie ca feel the talent of Christopher Nolan, just by looking at the way it is filmed. The techniques he used contribute to create that visual environment in a believable way.The sound environment is just mesmerizing. It is a very important part of the movie, because some scenes take place in space, and Noland just found the right way to use sound. The soundtrack (made by the great Hans Zimmer) is breathtaking, epic, amazing, unreal. I could find a lot more adjectives to qualify it, but you have to hear it to understand how epic they are. you think how loud this film is you think you ware a astronautMatthew, In this movie... Well, he is the movie. he orchestrates this film that everybody else feeds of his power so much that everyone around him gets better. But Matthew is just what was needed to feel the human part of the story (which is very important in Interstellar). He is capable of making us feel so many different emotions all along the story, as a father, as a human. Anne Hathaway was very convincing, all together the actors managed to create some harmony, which makes the human interactions credible. Caine, Chastaing and Affleck are a perfect choice. And then there is... The special guest who is mischievous in a minor role , is actually much more important than that. He proves, once again, that he is a great actor. Watch and see. and a sarcastic computer really a bit bizarre in space but this computer does come in handy in a important scene And finally, the scenario/story. I won't spoil anything here; I'll just try to convince you how great it is. Nolan is known to revolutionize everything when he tries a new genre in cinema. Well, once again he did it. With The Dark Knight he revolutionized the superhero genre. With Interstellar he's revolutionizing the sci-fi genre in cinema. he worked with a physicist in gravitational physics and astrophysics to help him with this movie. And we can feel and see just as Spielberg did in the 80s Nolan is doing it now Today, Nolan is laying the new foundations of the genre in cinema, proving that cinema is still at the beginning of what can be done (brace yourselves my friends, we have not seen anything yet). Why? Well, simply because we only know a few things about space, some things can't be proved for the moment, so we can use theory, and make the best of it. That is exactly what Nolan did. He used theories that exist today, and made a movie about mankind, about pioneers, about humanity, about us.whole journey that they thought was fraught with danger and the unknown as they have received messages from across time and space to realize that they had the answers after all it was just his daughter love to figure out what the lead scientist life work (Michael Caine) was about My rating for this movie can only be a 10,this film does not feel like 3hrs of moving space enthralling epic masterpiece with a beating heart of love and time and bending space time from a to b to meet his family across the universe This is the sci-fi movie of the decade, and probably the best movie Nolan ever made.if you like thinking about logic you might just come way thinking that this earth can be saved if we take what Nolan was taking about and not just taking the earth for granted Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night... Rage, Rage Against The Dying Of The Light."
__label__10 -Plot- The year is unknown, but most likely close to present time. The Earth is running out of resources and a group of underground NASA workers seek the help of Engineer/Astronaut turned Farmer Mr. Cooper in taking a journey across the Galaxy and through a wormhole in hopes of a future for mankind on the other side.That is the gist of the exposition of the plot. It's mostly quite clear what this movie is about through previews. On paper this sounds like a typical sci-fi plot, but Chris Nolan executes it like never before. The movie seems to be getting more mixed reviews from critics compared to his other films, and I think I have an explanation. Nolan and his team had too much faith in it's audience. The movie is full of science and dialogue strongly textured with physics theories. The talk of wormholes and Black holes are key to the movie. But I know that many will be left confused even with the explanations of what is going on to make everything in the film scientifically possible. After all, Physicist Kip Thorne was a consultant for the movie! I found it quite educational, interesting, but also over done at times. A good majority of people who watch this movie will be turned off by the abundance of scientific talk throughout the movie. I personally loved it and was never lost, but I could understand why many people were frustrated with the constant turns in the plot and overlong length. I found this movie to be amazing. Sure, at times the dialogue was hard to even understand. There was a scene where a major character is dying, and as he speaks his last words, it's almost impossible to decipher what is said. It was also almost unintentionally humorous. But that was a small price to pay and I'm sure the subtitles of the Blu Ray release will save that scene for me. The directing and cinematography are gorgeously done. The camera angles really bring the movie to life. Simple shots from the point of view of the rear of a truck or spaceship never looked so amazing. The visuals were undeniably beautiful whether the setting was in space, on the foreign planet or even the decaying Earth. The music of the film by Hans Zimmer deserves so much recognition! I will even say it was better than the score for Inception. It really increased the tension and pushed for emotional heartache in many parts of the film. There are many tense scenes that will have you holding on along with the characters in the movie and a good portion of this effect is due to the musical score! The acting was top class. Matthew M gave one of the greatest human performances in history as Mr. Cooper. I seriously think it was better than his Dallas Buyers Oscar Winning performance. I really hope he gets recognition for this. There are more than a few scenes that will make even the most cold hearted person feel like crying. He was just amazing. Anne Hathaway gave a stunning emotional performance as the flawed Bland. Jessica Chastain has a few strong moments as well. There is a scene regarding her character breaking down which will definitely make your eyes water. The supporting cast all do justice to the movie too, but Matthew and Jessica gave the best performances without a doubt.In a way, this movie resembles Inception in certain areas. Inception had a hint of relativity in it with the time differences between the dreams, the real world and limbo. Interstellar adds to that with the inclusion of a planet in the other galaxy in which every hour is equal to 7 years outside of its atmosphere. In Inception, a central character is left behind and lost in the limbo world with its major difference of time. In Interstellar, a central character is left behind in the other galaxy to find a new home while the other leaves to help the current home adjust until then. In Inception, a central character is old for a moment in limbo at the end due to the difference in time relativity. In Interstellar, the time relativity affects the entire human race as the astronauts are in the other galaxy. In both movies, the main character has left behind children and longs to be reunited. Inceptions main character doesn't want to see his children's faces until they are truly reunited. But in Interstellar, he holds on to the image of their faces as a survival tactic. This movie is full of Christopher/Jonathan Nolan-isms. Overall, I think that this movie should be seen in theaters on the big screen if you have the chance. It was a true experience. Be sure to be attentive and to clear your bladder first though. It will make you think. At times it might make you check your watch, but please endure and you will be treated to one of the most intriguing films of all time. Even if you think you didn't like the film, there is no doubt that you will be thinking about the contents of the plot and beauty of the visuals long after the credits roll.
__label__10 'Interstellar' takes off by constituting its soaring ambitions right at the very first few sequences of the film: humanity is struggling to survive in a barely habitable Earth, already at the brink of total destruction. Earth and its resources is down to its last few moments, but when a wormhole, a medium that enables space time-travel beyond known limits, is discovered, scientists and ordinary men gather together, to begin an exploration that would take time-traveling through different worlds, in man's desperate search for humanity's place among the stars.To fully understand 'Interstellar', its premise and its accuracy, may require repetitive thinking, research, and a certain level of intellect—perhaps the same level Nolan asked in 'Inception'. But the film does not necessarily ask its audience to right away fully understand it, instead it begs you to feel it, to experience its dilemmas and tragedies and go through the same threads of emotion tangled up within the web of humanity's last possible moments, and the relationship between a widowed father and his children already leaning toward an anticipated end. Nolan's made sure that even the film's ideas are too far-fetched and may seem resting on towering intellectual grounds, it would nonetheless connect to its audience by delivering its message through emotionally-charged tales of human relationships, tangible enough to be felt and experienced.At its core, is retired NASA engineer, Cooper (McConaughey) and his relationship with his children—most strikingly with his daughter, Murph. Cooper's emotional journey—the decision he has to make whether to leave his family behind or join the quest to search for a new habitable planet—alone, serves as an effective vessel to transport the audience from Earth, right from the moment the spacecract 'Endurance' takes off from the ground, to the unknown limits of the cosmos. McConaughey delivers a stunning and highly-commendable performance, and while I can't say its his best, as I've managed to have seen only a few of his movies, I can certainly say it's one of the best I've seen from any actor, so far, and he may be owing that to Nolan's impeccable direction. McConaughey's incredibly brilliant portrayal of a loving father places him at the center of the story. There are plenty of nail-biting sequences here depicting his devastation after the choices he needed to make and still has to take, and in each one, he never fails to effectively convey whatever emotion the sequence requires him to deliver.Nolan's mastery of his craft screams in deafening volumes through his unblemished capacity to explore and raise the layers of the film's characters and put their stories in right places and in valid highlights within the film, and that works best with the help of brilliant musical score orchestrated by the equally impeccable Hans Zimmer. Added with breath-taking cinematography and spectacular visual effects, together, these elements, make 'Interstellar' capable of weaving a human story powerful enough to intrude through our delicate emotional senses, delve into our humanity and still go beyond that. Nolan's managed to tread through the film's seemingly absurd scope and ambitions without losing focus on the one powerful element that seems to keep the film's aspects bonded together: LOVE. As chiché as it may sound, that may be the only thing that is right away understood and easily felt in the movie. There are a lot of questions raised, and each one poses another, but none of which really requires immediate answer, and by not losing grasp of the mystery of love, and the power it can deliver to make human connections tighter and even closer amidst the ever widening physical distance between the characters in the film, Nolan comes out victorious in making the audience feel and understand 'Interstellar' and have its questions answered, in a way that doesn't necessarily oblige us to just think, but also to make our emotions work as well, so we can have the experience the film wants us to go through.Sure, it can't be perfect, I myself noticed that it lacks focus with its narrative (this either because I find it hard to solve Nolan's puzzle-like construction of the story—LOL—or the narrative' s really not just that good. If you have seen Memento and Inception, the construction here is somehow similar as those two) and some respected critics even argue this one can't be Nolan's best, and I haven't seen all his works yet, either, but for me, it really isn't that hard to put this on the list of the best sci-fi movies I've seen so far. Nolan has put up together a perfect ensemble of outstanding actors, whose powerful performances, IMO, are enough to cover the flaws. Not a single bit of every actor's potential is put into waste, here; everyone has a star to shine in this universe Nolan created. Hans Zimmer's music seems to never go out of sync, in fact it almost always goes in harmony with the dramatic highlights of the film. Visual effects is never less than top-notch; the imagery presented in this film is utterly jaw-dropping, so expect to have your breath being repeatedly taken away by the frequent outburst of colors effectively employed to establish distinctions between the dimensions. All those elements are satisfyingly sufficient to create the deciding impulse needed to bring the movie to where it aims to arrive.'Interstellar' is a thought-provoking and mind-enriching motion picture, a grand and brilliantly depicted visual spectacle not bereft of human emotions, one of the best of its genre in a very long time. If this movie gets proclaimed as a classic in the coming decades, that definitely isn't going to come out as a surprise.This Christopher Nolan film deserves my 10 stars. :)
__label__10 OK, I've just seen Interstellar and I can tell it's one of those movies that you either love or hate.Personally I loved it and probably I'm going to watch it again to process it a little bit more. It's not a simple movie, maybe that was already clear, is a Nolan's film.Matthew McConaughey does a great job by portraying Cooper. The most touching scenes are those between his character and Mackenzie Foy, who plays the younger version of Murph, Jessica Chastain character. Either it seems to be an "Outer Space Film" is more about human relations and how important is for us to be linked with others. Even it's a long movie, 169 minutes, I didn't felt it that long or tedious. The director managed to keep us engaged through the whole film. The experience on IMAX in 70mm film. The image quality perceived was superb, now I get why Christopher Nolan and other directors are fighting to keep film alive. I had the opportunity to watch it at the Chinese theatre and was a great experience, my first time in that theatre. The staff from the theatre even told us that Nolan himself watched several scenes of the movie in that theatre to "calibrate" the experience. Which is very cool. Well, I encourage you to go and watch Interstellar to see of you love or hate it.
__label__10 What is the most resilient parasite? An Idea! Yes, Nolan has created something with his unbelievably, incredibly and god- gifted mind which will blow the minds of the audience away. The world premiere of the movie, directed by Hollywood's most inventive dreamers, was shown in London and has already got top notch reviews worldwide and has scored maximum points! Now the question arises what the movie has that it deserve all this?Dom Cobb(Di Caprio) is an extractor who is paid to invade the dreams of various business tycoons and steal their top secret ideas. Cobb robs forcefully the psyche with practiced skill, though he's increasingly haunted by the memory of his late wife, Mal (Marion Cotillard), who has a nasty habit of showing up in his subconscious and wreaking havoc on his missions. Cobb had been involved so much in his heist work that he had lost his love!But then, as fate had decided, a wealthy business man Saito( Ken Watanabe) hands over the responsibility of dissolving the empire of his business rival Robert Fischer Jr.(Cillian Murphy). But this time his job was not to steal the idea but to plant a new one: 'Inception'Then what happens is the classic heist movie tradition. To carry out the the task, Cobb's 'brainiac' specialists team up again with him, Arthur (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), his longtime organizer; Tom Hardy (Eames), a "forger" who can shapeshift at will; and Yusuf (Dileep Rao), a powerful sedative supplier. There is only one word to describe the cinematography, the set designs and the special effects, and that is Exceptional! You don't just watch the scenes happening, you feel them. The movie is a real thrill ride. The action scenes are well picturised and the music by Hans Zimmer is electronically haunting. Never, in the runtime of the movie, you will get a chance to move your eyes from the screen to any other object.Leonardo, who is still popularly known for Jack Dawson played by him in Titanic, should be relieved as his role as Dom Cobb will be remembered forever. His performance may or may not fetch him an Oscar but it will be his finest performance till date. The supporting cast too did an extraordinary work. Christopher Nolan, ah! what a man he is. His work is nothing less than a masterpiece and he deserves all the awards in the 'Best Director' category. If "Inception" is a metaphysical puzzle, it's also a metaphorical one: It's hard not to draw connections between Cobb's dream-weaving and Nolan's film making, intended to seduce us, mess with our heads and leave an ever-lasting impression.To conclude, I would just say before your life ends, do yourself a favor by experiencing this exceptionally lucid classic created by Nolan! My Rating: 10/10Thanks & Regards
__label__10 Dom Cobb leads a highly skilled team, specializing in stealing secrets from people's minds by entering their dreams. When they are hired by a mysterious businessman, Cobb finally has a shot at redemption, but not before achieving the near impossible. Rather than stealing an idea, they must do the complete opposite: Inception. Planting the seed of an idea.Inception has a multi-layered plot, quite literally in fact. It focuses on the emotional journey of its lead character, Cobb, but at the same time thrusts the audience into multiple levels of action packed story- telling, very distinct from one another, but all finely connected. It has been described by critics as "a film that rewards intellect", and I can assure you that it is exactly that. Director Christopher Nolan challenges the audience to keep up, and rewards those who can with a breathtaking spectacle, one that has the capability to leave you awestruck. The best part about it is that while you may feel you need to watch it again to be able to fully absorb the experience, chances are, you will probably want to.Christopher Nolan brings his unique vision to the screen with the help of a star-studded cast, including the likes of Leonardo Dicaprio (The Departed), Joseph Gordon-Levitt (500 Days Of Summer), Ellen Page (Juno), Marion Cotillard (Public Enemies), Cillian Murphy (Batman Begins), and Michael Caine (The Dark Knight), as well some amazing photography by long time collaborator Wally Pfister. The thrilling music in the film is provided by none other than Hans Zimmer, who was also set the mood for Nolan's previous film, The Dark Knight.While it may seem simple at its outset, Inception is an extremely complex film, delving deep into the subconscious of the human mind. Technical brilliance and visual splendor have rarely blended together as beautifully. The emotional depth and explosive action complement each other perfectly, delivering a film that is at the same time both heart- wrenching and heart-pounding. It's a film that manages to engross you with its complexities, yet comes together seamlessly, and will have you at the edge of your seat, quite literally from start to finish.Inception is magnificent.
__label__10 Films about dreams and the subconscious are usually not very straightforward and almost always weird. "Inception" is no exception to that rule, but like its cinematic predecessors who have explored the contrast between and the questions of what is real and what is illusion (i.e. "The Matrix" (1999), "The Cell" (2000), "Abre Los Ojos" (1997) & its American remake "Vanilla Sky" (2001)), you really can't look away, nor should you."Inception" is an excellent and breathtaking movie that may be one of the only films released so far during the Summer of 2010 that lives up to its hype. It is a nearly perfect and highly original film that holds your attention until the credits roll. The less you know about this movie going in, the more you will be entranced by seeing it.Leonardo DiCaprio plays Dom Cobb, a world class criminal who, with the help of a team of sleep experts, works his way into people's subconscious and steals what people value most: ideas directly from their minds. In his last assignment to possibly clear his name, he is assigned not to steal an idea from someone, but to plant one inside that person's mind. The difficulty comes when certain people are trained to block their ideas from being taken.That plot summary only covers the basics of this pretty complicated story, but to describe every plot detail would take away the magic of this film you must see yourself to believe. DiCaprio is good in his role, but unlike many other films he has starred in, this is perhaps his only role where his character alone does not carry the weight of the movie on his shoulders or share it equally with one other co-star. Instead, this great ensemble cast teams together to make this movie work, just as their characters collaborate to pull off such a unique heist. Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Ellen Page, and Tom Hardy are especially good in their roles.The special effects in this film were also very good, which is amazing considering their simplicity compared to the "Matrix" movies. There are slow-motion shots, but no impossible kung fu fighting sequences. It's especially interesting when the film gets into the architecture of certain dreams, and impossible sequences are filmed in a way I've never seen other than in drawings.However, the special effects would mean nothing if the story wasn't good. For this reason, even something as simple as a spinning top holds your attention in a way you would never think it would when seeing it in this film. The credit here can be given to writer and director Christopher Nolan, who has not made a bad film yet. There are many twists and turns in this film, but Nolan never loses his focus in the process of telling the story. If Nolan does not get nominated for Best Director and/or Best Original Screenplay next Oscar season, there is something terribly wrong with the Academy.That being said, there was still a lot about this film I still don't get, and may require multiple viewings to better understand. However, some of the best films I've seen are confusing at first. "2001: A Space Odyssey" (1968) is a film I've seen a couple of times, and still don't understand completely. It still has a major following, though, as I'm positive this movie will. It's an incredibly entertaining movie, but it also makes you think and continues to do so after you leave the theater.
__label__10 I saw Memento very recently, something that turned out to be a great miss.I saw it again, just to make a couple of thins straight-and i'll definitely do the same with Inception.Christopher Nolan keeps improving himself, with even more complex and multilayer script like this.And i thought Memento was hard to reach by most of the viewers, but no.Inception will keep you mesmerized and captivated by the genius, that's hidden behind it.And not just directors and screenwriters (or with other words-Nolan), but with acting and sound-and effects and editing as well.When you have a cast like this-i mean Leonardo DiCaprio, Joseph Gordon-Lewitt, Michael Caine, or Marion Cotillard (a personal favourite), the movie just keeps going flawlessly.Most of the crew is the same the Nolan brothers worked with on TDK and earlier in Batman Begins.So the Oscar noms in those categories are a certainty for me.The only thing one could have against the movie, is the headache one could have.See, most of my friends go to the movies for brainless action, they enjoyed Iron Man 2 and The A-Team, but this movie-you have to see it at least twice, to understand it.The levels and the layers on which thing are happening are so many, that one surely'll miss something vital.This is a reason for not fitting to the mass audience, but i hope that won't happen, because Nolan is one of my favourite directors/writers, and he showed, that the brainless action flicks aren't all of it.There are still movies like Inception out there and still people like the Nolans to make those movies, so it's not all lost.And i hope this movie could show the audience that the story is still important for the experience one could receive, not the endless, constant explosions.Because this is really a one of a lifetime event.Saying that, i must say, that in a world full of remakes, reboots, sequels, prequels and God knows what, this is a unique chance to see something different and unmatched so far-a strong movie, that, surely will be Nolan's latest masterpiece! My Grade won't change-it's the same for all Nolan movies-sheer 10!
__label__10 Inception is truly one of a kind. A concept which has long gestated in Christopher Nolan's mind, his eye for drama mixed with his large scale sensibilities ring true in Blockbuster season making Inception a true original in the sea of reboots, remakes and sequels.To try and explain Inceptions many plot twists and incredibly intelligent arcs, would be a foolish task. As Nolan himself has been reluctant to. The best way to approach the film would be with an open mind, if you are prepared to be taken on a ride of a lifetime, then trust that you 100% will. If Avatar was a seminal film in technology (although coming out as a rather poor film, in my opinion), then Inception is seminal in it's storytelling. With a 148 minute running time, you would expect a lot to take place, but what you wouldn't expect is the pace of it all. I did not think at one time in the film about how long was left. I was simply blown away by the depth in every single part of the film. If my enthusiasm for the storytelling aspect of the film has left you worried about the spectacle, then don't worry. They are, as hinted in the trailer, incredible, looking real and unbelievable simultaneously. The most pleasing thing about the action set pieces, is that they are genuinely used to illustrate the story, rather than to blow stuff up a la Michael Bay.With this complex movie in it's high concept, a stellar cast is needed. And Nolan as always, delivers with just that. This is vintage DiCaprio, perhaps only equalled in The Aviator, which is even more impressive as his role as Cobb in Inception is not a showy one, needing DiCaprio to be the constant at the centre of the film. And he pulls off Cobb's emotional contradictions sublimely. The rest of the cast members all shine in parts of the films, Cillian Murphy shows off his usually non-existent tender side, Gordon-Levitt bottles his usual charm for his confidently reserved turn as the reliable Arthur, Watanabe is devilish as the seemingly ambiguous Saito, Page shows why she's the next big female star and Tom Hardy revels in being the comic relief of the film compared to his recent turns as decidedly psychopathic characters.Overall, Nolan has indeed surpassed himself. He has created a world as expansive as his Gotham, a plot dwarfing the intricacies of Memento and one which blows The Prestige's cinematic reveal out of the water. This is truly unmissable cinema. Revel in it, we've still got to wait a whole two years before Batman 3.
__label__10 Usually I try to be careful with over hyping a film, or setting the expectations too high, as film geeks all are guilty for, however for Christopher Nolan's Inception, this really is not possible.This is possibly one of the only perfect films I have ever seen. It is absolutely confident in every way, something which is extremely refreshing, even more so than Avatar. Christopher Nolan gets some slack for making great to look at but ultimately heartless affairs, which I for one do not agree with, however I do not think anyone can argue that here. The emotional aspect of this film not only ties it all together but is really the centre of this film, it is the focus. I do not want to over simplify the film, by simply calling it Kubrick doing Bond, or Gondry on a huge budget, because I am sure it will be called that but it is far more than that, it is something I do not think Kubrick could have ever made. It is pure Nolan, and pure greatness.I hate writing something which is pure fan-boy gushing, but its really difficult here. I did not find a thing I did not like about it, I am sure if maybe I saw it a second time, maybe I would find something about it I didn't like, but not the first time. The way it is cut, means that there is always action on screen, if not, then the visuals are interesting enough to keep your eyes glued.The final hour of the film, is possibly one of the most complicated action sequences put on film. You have to constantly be paying attention to remember all of the layers of what is happening. Without spoiling anything, all I have to say is that is what this film is about, that is what makes this film so great, layers. Once you have seen this you will now what I am talking about.All of the actors are fantastic too, Di Caprio is the stand out here. Yes, this is probably due to the fact he is the star and given all of the emotional weight, but he handles it perfectly, similarly to his performance in Shutter Island. Ellen Page, whom I usually hate, gives a great performance here. Tom Hardy gives a break out performance here, he is quite the bad ass.I hope audiences are ready for a film like this, a pure auteur driven film which does not sacrifice a single frame for the studio. I would hope this film will change Hollywood, as it is 100 percent the directors vision yet it is definitely a marketable film, much like District 9, yet I do not think it will. I cannot recommend this film anymore than I have, I just have to say everyone and anyone should see it. Sorry about all the gushing, it is just so hard not too.If you liked this review check out my new film blog: http://thedeletedscene.wordpress.com
__label__10 I had the privilege of seeing this movie before it came out, and, like most of DiCaprio's films, it blew me away.Inception is a well-made movie, filmed in about 6 locations all over the world. The directing was outstanding, there were only about two moments, maybe three seconds in total, where i noticed that visual effects were being used (of course defying gravity is pretty difficult). The plot was very pleasingly intricate, with a twist-and-turn, keep-you-on-the-edge-of-your-seat type feel. I noticed that this film had similarities with DiCaprios thriller Shutter Island (which i also enjoyed very much)seeing as it left you wondering what was real and what was not. It's great to see a movie with a thick and emotional plot and not just grenade-throwing action heroes who achieve greatness in the end.Inception also has a very well-composed score, which to me was the finishing touch to a perfect movie. If you're thinking about seeing Inception, definitely go! Even though i was fortunate enough to see a free show, it is worth every penny you pay. Truly unique, like nothing i've ever seen before. Christopher Nolan certainly covered new ground with this film and wasn't afraid to leave us hanging with a spectacular ending.
__label__10 What do we ask for in a summer blockbuster? What is it that incites hysteria this time every year for whatever dross the studios churn out? Epic hugeness? Blowing stuff up? Romance? Action? Heroes? What are we looking for in a blockbuster? I think it all boils down to thrills! Audiences want the thrill of a car chase, the thrill of romance, the thrill of the spectacular! If that is the case, then Inception just might be the greatest summer blockbuster of all time as it also contains something we often don't look for...brains! "What is the most resilient parasite? An idea" says Leonardo Di Caprio's character Cobb. Well, Inception is all about ideas. It's all right there in the title. The film central idea revolves around "Extractors", who are paid to extract secrets from people's subconscious minds by sneaking into their dreams, usually for the purpose of corporate espionage. However, when one client asks them to plant an idea in the mind of their corporate rival, "Inception" is born. The less said about this film the better. It is full of ideas and invention and for each set piece I divulge, a piece of the film's genius is weakened. This is a film that cleverly and intricately brings the audience through several planes of existence simultaneously but never allows the viewer to feel lost. Such is the power of Christopher Nolan's script which, I imagine, is likely to get overlooked due to the sheer visual magnificence of his direction. But everything that makes this film so great is in the script...in the ideas! Everything else is just spectacle. This film bears an uncanny resemblance, thematically, with DiCaprio's other instant classic this year, Shutter Island. Both films investigate in depth the tricks a traumatised mind can play on the individual. Both films are luscious to watch and both films keep the audience firmly outside the realm of reality. However, Inception is an even more layered film than Shutter Island and I believe the sci-fi genre setting will prove to be less alienating for audiences than the prison noir of Scorsese's film. There is not a single dull moment in Nolan's film. There is style, charm and intelligence in every frame of the film. Every performance is pitch-perfect with some strong support by Ellen Page and Joseph Gordon-Levitt particularly who have grown up right before our eyes into undeniable movie stars. Leonardo DiCaprio gives a typically flawless performance as the muddled, grieving man who we never quite trust to be living in the real world. The best part of Inception is the large amount of effects which were done in camera. While the film does make use of CGI, there are some pretty mind-blowing practical effects which are as simple as the camera telling beautiful lies; a rare treat these days. This is a blockbuster that ticks all the boxes; smart, sexy (femme fatale, sexy brainy girl, very beautiful men in very beautiful suits) and magical. Inception is the kind of film that reminds me why cinema will never die. Because anyone who thinks it's OK to watch this film on a laptop or iPad is a fool! This is pure cinema, and proud of it. Not to be missed on the big screen!
__label__10 Many of us, not least those who populate the online world with movie reviews, observations and criticisms, are aware of Chris Nolan's raw talent. Memento broke onto the screen a decade ago and provided us with a spectacle in story telling so rare that it dumbfounded us. Since then, Nolan has gained huge popularity with his revival of the Batman franchise, and even more so with the stunning Dark Knight - that still has yet to relinquish its grip on modern day cinema - with the genius of The Prestige sandwiched in between.None of this, however, could have quite prepared us for the spectacle that is INCEPTION. A script that has been worked on for over a decade, Nolan's endeavours are inescapable in its pure complexity and brilliance - quite simply, one of the best film story lines audiences will have encountered in their lifetime. All this is supplemented superbly by the film's ensemble cast - DiCaprio's performance cannot easily be done justice without seeing it. With this and Shutter Island, now must be the time for his first Oscar - he has asserted his place as truly one of the best actors currently working. All reviews will confirm that Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Tom Hardy and Ellen Page back his performance up superbly with well-worked turns. Inception's action sequences play out wonderfully, being - along with the comic relief and back-stories - an integral part of the film's unravelling, whilst we remain rooted to the film's emotional stakes, which give immense purpose to the film's complex and layered narrative.Our protagonist battles with both outer and inner demons in his quest for redemption. The unique concept of entering dreams offers the opportunity not only for a unique species of heist but also a way to dig deeper and deeper into one's subconscious, and the ability to plant an idea which could define that person, or destroy them. In theaters around the world, Nolan uses his dynamic skill to plant an idea in our minds which together allows us to experience the very dream- share the film explores, one which will remain with us long after the film's emotional climax. Inception is a cinema experience so audacious, so incredible, and in the end so gratifying, that it truly is unmissable, and will remain a benchmark for many filmmakers in years to come.10/10.
__label__10 My 3rd time watching this movie! Yet, it still stunned my mind, kept me enjoyed its every moment and left me with many thoughts afterward.
For someone like me, who've rarely slept without dream, it's so exciting watching how Christopher Nolan had illustrated every single characteristic of dream on the big screen. As it's been done so sophisticatedly, I do believe the rumour that Nolan had spent 10 years to finish the script of Inception. In my opinion, it's been so far the greatest achievement in his brilliant writer-director career. I jumped into this conclusion after making a quick benchmark of Nolan's remarkable works:
Memento, as his first signature in the cinema history, is tremendous and has stayed the most mind-bending film I've ever seen. But overall, it doesn't reach the same level of Inception.The Prestige is highly impressive but somehow I haven't been able to find the very particular "Nolan's spirit" in it.The Batman Trilogy is the best superhero saga of all time and its peak The Dark Knight is no doubt a masterpiece as well. Nonetheless, every time we talk about it, Heath Ledger takes all the spotlights with his life-time-role: The (unique-and-only) Joker.Then there came Inception where Nolan truly stood out, having every single detail of his work done in the finest way. The multi-layered storyline despite its complexity, remains consistent and originally interesting. From visual aspect, everything was masterly handled: an impeccable cross-cutting allowed the movie to follow Nolan's nonlinear story-telling without being scattered; a wonderful cinematography work completed with incredibly imaginative visual-effects brought into life so many breathtaking scenes, some of them, I believe, will stay in the audience's mind for a long time (city bending in Paris, zero-gravity fight, in limbo, dreams collapsing...). In addition, Nolan had also a solid cast ensemble to help him deliver all of his messages.Later, we had Interstellar. Though I did admire its cinematography and visual-effects, the film itself is nowhere near the level of Inception.
SPOILERS AHEAD !!!!! For all who haven't watched this movie, you may stop the reading right here because the following paragraphs contain a ton of spoilers!It is set in the world where there's technology that allows people to literally share dream. There is, in this world, a new kind of corporate spy - "extractors" who use this technology to infiltrate the target's subconscious and extract valuable information through a shared dream world. Our hero Mr Cobb (Leonardo DiCaprio), a very well-known extractor, and his partner Arthur (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) are approached by a powerful businessman - Mr Saito (Ken Watanabe) for a nearly impossible mission, something no one has ever done before : instead of steeling, he wants them to plant an idea in a person's subconscious, which is also called "inception". In return, Saito offers something that Cobb could never resist: a ticket to go home with his children by taking out the homicide charge against him. So Cobb and Arthur gather a team to carry out the mission: Eames (Tom Hardy) - a veteran identity forger, Yusuf - the only one chemist can make such a powerful sedative for such a complex 3-levels "dream within a dream", and Ariadne (Ellen Page) - a newbie but remarkably talented architect whose role is critical for the success of the mission. The target is Robert Fischer (Cillian Murphy) - son and heir of Saito's biggest competitor (Maurice Fischer, who's dying). The goal is to seed an idea into his mind which will make him abandon his father's business, and the team has to carry Saito as visitor in their mission to let him verify the result of inception. While the team go deeper and deeper into Fischer's mind, we discover gradually the dark of Cobb's past, as well as the 2 biggest why concerning our hero: Why he has became such an expert of inception and What is his desperate motivation for taking that insane mission.The movie is not only about the inception mission but more importantly, about the struggle of finding the way in the maze of life. In Cobb's case, it's the maze of dreams built by his memories with his past wife Mal (Marion Cotillard) and his regrets. So as long as he let himself consumed by the past by blaming himself for the death of his love wife, it will keep coming back and haunt his present: the deeper the team go into dream, the more dangerous his subconscious, under the form of his ghostly wife, comes out and could anytime jeopardize the mission. Indeed, if we apprehend the movie with these 2 layers of its story, the ending scene makes perfect sense. Yes! We're now talking about that famous ending which has still remained one of the most controversial movie endings in the cinema history. Did Cobb find Mr Saito in limbo, bring he back to complete the mission then come back to his children in the real world? Or they are still stuck in limbo - the infinite dream world, and the last scene was just his big dream? But all of those question only matter in the first layer of the story: the result of inception mission. When we perceive the story in its deeper layer, as a journey for Cobb to let go of his feeling of guilt for the past and re-find the meaning of his life, this ending did fulfill its job. Cobb didn't even stay to see either if the spinning top would fall because he didn't care any more, what's important to him is that he gonna be with his kids. He did finally get rid of his haunting past and be able to move on, and that matters. And after all, dream or reality, the importance is to truly live. So from this point of view, he has solved the maze of his life.
Some short lines about the cast:
Leo has done justice to our main character but he did not success to make a leap from his previous similar roles in Shutter Island and Blood Diamond.Joseph Gordon-Levitt could have been more intense, given the fact that he had the most astounding fight scene in the movie (zero-gravity sequence).There was something missing in Ken Watanabe's performance to portray the powerful man who sponsored the crazy mission. Maybe it was his English...Tom Hardy was OK but forgettable because his character didn't have any memorable moment though he had a lot of screen time.Ellen Page was really impressive, she did fully illustrate the cleverness and the keenness of the young brilliant architect. And personally, I did find a lot of charms in her acting.Cillian Murphy has also done a great job. Much more emotionally complex than just a target of the inception mission, his character Robert Fischer, at the end, was not so different than our hero Cobb. They both were struggling to find a way out of their own maze. If for Cobb, it was the painful past with his late wife; for Fischer, it was the grand shadow and the lack of recognition of his late dad.Last but not least, the one who impressed me the most was Marion. Mal was so beautiful and mysterious in a very unique haunting way, mostly with her speaking eyes! And for me, she is the most remarkable character of the movie.
__label__10 The film takes a somber, serious tone as to what would happen if Japan were attacked -- in this case, by a seemingly unstoppable foe. At present in Japan, there is an ongoing debate as to whether or not Japan should amend it's constitution to allow for an offensive military and this Godzilla film plays to exactly how powerless Japan would be in making it's own decisions during an attack of any kind. The reality is that the Japanese Prime Minister would have to ask for permission from the United States President before making an offensive move against a foreign threat and this film plays to that hard reality. This new Godzilla starts out as an homage to its former man in a monster suit so that when you first see Godzilla, you'll disbelieve what you're seeing, but this Godzilla evolves into something majestic and utterly awe inspiring in its power. What's more, this film makes it clear people die. In the Japanese release there's a lot of word play about how the government officials up high (on the fifth floor) make decisions that get passed down to people on lower floors that eventually hurt the people. I'm not sure how much will be translated, but the film is deliberately showing the disconnect between the political and day to day realities. Overall, the performances are good. There is one character who they, for whatever reason, decided to make speak English in odd an inappropriate times. This isn't a film for US audiences. The aesthetics will turn off a lot of non-Japanese young people accustomed to CG reality. But if you're open to learning about another culture, this is an excellent film, one of the best kaiju-films you'll ever see.
__label__10 (No Spoiler) Godzilla movies including Hollywood's 2014 Godzilla have been not able to surpass the original Godzilla. But finally, I think they did. Godzilla is back. Japanese title is Shin-Godzilla, Shin could mean true, new, God, shaking, and so on, and everything is right. This is not like heroic Godzilla we used to know, it is the new creature. But his terror, message, hopeless feeling, resemble the original Godzilla. Finally, Japan created the real Godzilla. CGIs are really great in this movie, not like ones you saw in previous movies. I'm serious. The destruction scene is amazing. You'll be stunned and get excited. But you can deeply feel the respect for the original Godzilla movie. They really did such a great job. This movie will blow your mind away. Finally, Godzilla is back. He's back!
__label__10 2014 marked the Return Of The King (Of The Monsters) - Godzilla, at least for American audiences, in Gareth Edwards's "Godzilla." That film, while it had its flaws, represented the best vision of Godzilla thus far - at least for American audiences, after the disaster of "Godzilla" (1998).2016, however, marks the Return Of The King (Of The Monsters), redux - "Shin Gojira," a.k.a., "Godzilla: Resurgence." Toho's "Shin Gojira"/"Godzilla: Resurgence" is the first Japanese-produced "Godzilla" film since "Godzilla: Final Wars" in 2004 - the latter film marking Godzilla's 50th anniversary. "Shin Gojira"/"Godzilla: Resurgence" is also the first Japanese-produced "Godzilla" film to be released theatrically in the United States since "Godzilla 2000" (1999) back in 2000 - and was, as a tearful aside, the last film I ever saw at the now-defunct Cineplex Odeon at my local shopping mall before it closed down later that year.It was released in a limited one-week theatrical engagement here in the United States, and I had the opportunity to watch the film today with a very good friend who had never seen a Japanese "Godzilla" in the theater.Needless to say, this was an event movie for me, well, both my friend and myself.As readers familiar with my reviews here know, I am a life-long Godzilla fan; "Gojira" (1954) is my all-time favorite monster movie, and Godzilla is my all-time favorite movie monster. He has truly earned the nickname the "King of the Monsters."But Japan is a very different country now, than it was during the 1950s when Godzilla first appeared. In March of 2011, Japan experienced a devastating 9.0-magnitude earthquake that caused a massive tsunami and ravaged the Fukushima nuclear power plant. Thousands of people were killed in this tragedy, and Japan is still in the process of recovering from the disaster five years later. So, add a giant, fire-breathing radioactive lizard to the mix, and see what happens."Shin Gojira"/"Godzilla: Resurgence" is a gripping film, from the very first opening moments which are complete with music and sound effects that are a direct homage to the opening moments of the original 1954 "Gojira." That is perhaps the single greatest treat for eagle-eyed/-eared Godzilla fans who have eagerly awaited Godzilla's return for 12 years now. But while this movie is about Godzilla, it's also about Japan, how the country has changed in the 62 years since Godzilla's 1954 debut, and a new generation of film-goers are now being introduced to him. And, needless to say, this is a very different film from the "Godzilla" films that appeared before it."Shin Gojira"/"Godzilla: Resurgence" is the first "Godzilla" film ever to really dive into the behind-the-scenes hand-wringing, politics, and bureaucracy that was merely glossed over in all of the films produced from 1954 to 2014. Because we're seeing so many different human characters working for so many Japanese agencies, the prime minister and the Japan Self-Defense Forces (JSDF) all working together to face a threat that defies everything they know about science and nature, we have to become accustomed to a lot of folks just standing around talking.But the various characters manage to keep us interested.But, also, this behind-the-scenes drama also provides us with plenty of chances of anti-bureaucratic satire (which I know is something American audiences would love to see). I take this as a satirical commentary to the way Japan's government may have handled the response to the 2011 earthquake and tsunami, and the subsequent Fukushima nuclear disaster; much of this satire is actually quite funny, and fits in with the scenario, and does not in any way distract us from the seriousness of the film's proceedings. All this is seen through the eyes of a young government bureaucrat named Rando Yaguchi (Hiroki Hasegawa). Hasegawa gives the film's most compelling acting performance, and provides an amazing center as he reacts to everything that's going on around him and happening to his country; he finds himself carrying the burden of an incredible responsibility, and he accepts that responsibility with grace, dignity, and courage. He's something like the target member for the audience.And lastly what about Godzilla himself (since he's the reason we go to see this movie)? Let me just say, this Godzilla does not disappoint. I would hazard a guess that this is the most powerful Godzilla ever seen on the screen - in addition to being the most massive. Although we all know what this Godzilla looks like - his appearance has been the subject of massive controversy and debate in online fan circles, and is the first Godzilla to be fully CGI rather than a man in a costume - to see him in action in this movie is the real joy here.Co-director/screenwriter Hideaki Anno and co-director Shinji Higuchi (of last year's live-action "Attack on Titan" adaptation) have fashioned the (near-) perfect reboot of the original Japanese "Godzilla" film franchise. There is no question, in my mind, that if Ishiro Honda (who directed "Gojira" in 1954 and several other subsequent "Godzilla" films for Toho), he would be proud for what Mr. Anno and Mr. Higuchi have achieved here.10/10
__label__10 It's a very good movie but not for everyone. If you want to see only Godzilla destroying city may be you gonna hate it. 80% of movie focus on politicians, They'll talk,talk and talk to find the way to defeat Godzilla. Sound normal but it's actually amazing to watch it. For who got spoiled already I'm gonna say It's not effects your feeling while watching this movie because The best part of this movie are conversations!.Music are amazing, CGI still lame in some part of the movie but overall is good!. And the big surprise of Evangalion's fans,Anno put many Easter eggs in this movie you guys can't miss it.
__label__10 The Fast and the Furious (2001) It is solid decent action film of the film franchise. I love this film it is my third favorite film in the series. I wasn't watching this film for the cars or street races this film is about robbery, as a string of high-speed electronics truck robberies rocks the area. The Team stole $1.2 million worth of major electronics and the cops doesn't have any leads who has done it. There is only one team that could be responsible, Dominic Torreto (Vin Diesel) and his gang of street racers. During the night Torreto and his crew of street racers are driving cars in Los Angeles. Brian O'Conner (Paul walker) a undercover LAPD officer under the alias "Brian Earl Spilner", is he assigned to find out who is stealing the merchandise. This is my favorite film, it is an decent Action film about heist $1.2 million and not about the cars. Why I love this film? Because It is clever, intelligent, Entertained, fast paced and not boring film. The girls are beautiful in this team. The Action sequences are real and perfectly done. I love that late Paul Walker plays Brian O'Conner and undercover L.A. Police Officer who try's to do the right thing. I am Paul Walker fan and Brian O'Conner is my favorite character of the whole franchise and series. I am saying The Fast and the Furious is better than 2,3 and even 7 so the film is pretty good.Paul Walker, Vin Diesel, Michelle Rodriguez and Jordana Brewster did a terrific job playing their characters.With these players set in motion, it's up to the script to deliver the real substance of the movie. (One often sees great performances in mediocre films..here the story transcends the performances -- an impressive feat.) The script delivers. These themes are reinforced by the fine performances by Paul Walker and, particularly, Vin Diesel. Diesel's Toretto is a tough, no-nonsense, street-smart and highly-skilled racer on the outside, but as O'Conner and the audience come to know him, it is revealed that he is a human being with feelings, a troubled and hard past, and doing his best to get along, even if it means skirting or breaking the law. He's the head of a household, and the patriarch of sorts of a gang that is more family than it is a collection of members. Diesel brings hard-nosed and gritty energy to the role, but compliments that with a softer, more accessible side that makes him an odd sort of antihero, a man clearly in the wrong but not maliciously or spitefully so. Walker, too, is excellent as the undercover officer that finds the world of underground racing not-so-seedy as it seems. On the turbo-charged streets of Los Angeles, every night is a championship race. With intense full-throttle action, awesome high-speed stunts, and full-on pedal to the metal intensity, this fast and furious assault puts you in the driver's seat and dares you to exceed all limits.Los Angeles police officer Brian O'Connor must decide where his loyalties really lie when he becomes enamored with the street racing world he has been sent undercover to destroy.It don't matter if you win by an inch or a mile. Winning's winning. The Fast and the Furious is a gritty and gratifying cheap thrill, Rob Cohen's high-octane hot-car is a true rarity these days, a really good exploitation, the sort of thing that would rule at drive-ins if they still existed. The Fast and the Furious is a good Action movie. It offers a conventional plot but populates the story with well-developed primary characters that draw the audience in and make them care about their stories. In the movie, the line between good and bad becomes blurred to the point that, by the end, it matters not which side of the law the characters call home.I love this film to death! It is my 3d favorite film in the series franchise. The Fast and the Furious kicks ass! Even for PG-13 film they kick ass! Brian O'Conner kicks ass!!!
__label__10 This movie, has by far the best car racing scenes ever filmed, as well as the best cars. They are gorgeous machines, and these guys certainly can drive them. Great story, not just another Gone in Sixty Seconds where all they did was steal cars, there actually weren't very many race scenes as you might expect, but every shot is filled with cars, and lots of them. The acting is great as well, as usual Vin Diesel gives a brilliant performance, as Dominic Toretto. It has already earned a massive following, and when you leave the theaters you will be filed with such a massive adrenaline rush, that you and all your buddies will be left with the feeling that you must go out and race. Everybody I have talked to have said the same thing, it just has this crazy adrenaline rush it gives you. I highly recommend this to all fans of cars, and racing, but it has something for everybody so see it even if you are not a fan of either, bottom line, just see it!!!!!!
__label__10 Paul Walker is a undercover cop who has just infiltrated the most infamous street racing families; led by Vin Diesel; is mission is to find out who is robbing truck filled with electronics while in motion.The film is pure adrenaline rush; from great cars to great looking girls; this film brings a fun filled experience.Paul Walker's character Brian faces a dilemma as he falls in love with Dominic's (Vin) sister; he then investigates further only to find out that there is more then one street racing gang who is into electronics.The film is a true action classic, Paul Walker is okay as the undercover; but Vin steals the show, with his great lines and muscular arms.This film was the very first I think to introduce Nos; Nitrogen oxide. A lot of my friends had no idea what it was before this film came out; I felt a sense of pride, explaining it to them.Remember one last thing, Winning is winning.
__label__10 When you watch Fast and the Furious, please don't take it as a serious work of drama.  Watch it as a mindless movie with fast cars and attractive women. With that said you would consider it a masterpiece.True, the movie has bad acting and poor story, but that is what makes it a marvelous popcorn film.  My friends and I spend hours mocking the film and its horrendous dialogue.  The movie is full of silly lines bound to make you laugh.  Just check the memorable quotes section.  There are so many classic scenes that make it a campy movie. Some scenes and dialogue is so ridiculous that it is too much fun to ridicule and imitate.  It so bad it's good. Plus it is very watchable because of the fast cars and hot girls.  I'm not sure if the filmmakers intentionally had the goal of "so bad it's good" but the cast and crew have made this into one of the best unintentionally funny films of all time.I urge each living soul to witness this magnificent work of art with an open mind and sense of humor.  You won't regret it.(Another note:  Ja Rule is terrific in this film.  He produces the all-time greatest cameo.  Unintentional or not it is a work of genius in the comedy department.  He is a pure delight to see him on screen.)
__label__10 I just saw it for the thousand time, and it's still as good as the first time I saw it. Rob Cohen is a pure genius, he truly is. These movies are magnificently awesome and I'm going to tell you why. No Spoiler alerts I promise.Let's start with the basics. The script and plot is close to perfection. Everything from Action, comedic feuds, deceit, romance and amazing surprises. It has a little of everything and a lot of the rest.The characters' difference is brilliant. The background of them is hidden beneath the surface of someone completely different. They're just amazingly entertaining. They're personalities is even better. I can't say anything else because I'm out of words; speechless.The action scenes are incredible for a movie like this. I won't say to much about them though, but if you haven't seen it yet, do so. The first scene when you see how good Brian drives is good and when you see the spark he has, and how his driving improves throughout the movie; nice, very nice. The turning point is pretty good too, but you'll have to find it yourself because I am not going to spoil your movie-experience. The twists in the movie are good, and there is more than one as well. Everyone has secrets, and the secrets are what make this movie just as good as it is. Without the secrets the movie wouldn't be worth watching. OK, let's talk about the acting. First, Mark Vincent (or as you may know; Vin Diesel), I'm a big fan for a reason. There's never anything to say on his acting, so I won't even get into how amazingly amazing he is. So, the rest of them, I am a little iffy on their names so I am just going to call them by their character names. Brian, or the guy who played his role in the movie did a great job and so did Mia and Vince. There wasn't any bad acting in the movie, only good acting and some awesome acting.The mix of secrecy, trust and romance is pretty damn good. I'm running out of adjectives. So I'll just try and wrap this up and give you my concluding opinion and rating of this movie.This movie is definitely worth watching. I really and truly recommend you to watch this movie and its following movies. They are worth watching, ask anyone who've seen them they'll tell you the same. Personally I think it's great and awesome and so does my pal here who watched it with me an hour or so ago. For my rating, based on everything I wrote and didn't write, I give it 10 out of 10 stars. Why? I couldn't find anything negative about it and since I still enjoy watching after all these times I've already seen it it's probably worthy of a perfect 10.Rating: 10/10Thanks for reading my review. Good night, Bon soir, guten nacth, god natt y Buenos noches. Peace & Love God BlessJ.J.Shevy
__label__10 Not only because it was shot at my hometown (Los Angeles CA) but, it has every essence of a great film. This to me is the best movie of all the FF franchise. This movie touches action, love, hate, friendship, adrenaline etc. It has a great storyline to keep you entertain. This movie I believe was very successful not only because during that point during the American culture Auto Tunning was reaching its peak but because of the actors selected. At that time these were not world wide icons and had not been involve in a blockbuster movie that would tattooed their careers in Hollywood. Finally I just want to point out that I am no movie critic or someone who studied in order to criticize a movie, I am simply an average Joe that likes to see all kinds of movies but, specially action movies been The Fast and the Furious my favorite movie of all times. Have to say that my first ever DVD (or movie for that matter) I bought with my own money was this FF movie.
__label__10 This movie has by far the best acting in any racing movie I've ever seen. Vin Diesel plays his role extremely well in this film as well as Paul Walker (Brian Spilner) who acts as an undercover cop trying to bust Dominic and his street racing gang. This movie also has some of the best cars and probably the most cars I've seen in a street racing film. In almost every scene there's cars. The film takes a dramatic turn in the end which gives you a rush and thrill as if you were actually in the movie. All in all, I think this movie is perfect for any racing fan or car enthusiast however, it's also extremely entertaining and I think anyone would enjoy this movie.
__label__10 Outstanding movie, makes me want to go out and sup up my car and race somebody.  A definate see.  I loved the fast cars, the high speed adrenalin, and some good lookin women. One of the best "car" movies i've seen yet.
__label__10 OK, Fast and the Furious might not be the earth shattering movie of the summer, but...for car people, there is a new kid in town.  Before TF&TF, my overall #1 in the car movie category would have to be "Gone in 60 Sec" Which I am sure that most fans like myself would agree with. And I still enjoy that movie, But!  TF&TF, though is was quite predictable, still got my engine revving with the tricked out cars and engines.  Overall, TF&TF was basically a good dose of ear and eye candy, which was enough for me and my friends!  Excellent movie!
__label__10 The Curious Case of Benjamin Button is a film unlike any I've ever seen and probably ever will. A true epic that left me utterly speechless. It accomplished so much through such simplicity. Everything was top notch from the elegant directing to the subtly wonderful performances down to the magical score. The film demands you to feel not only for the death we witness, but for the incredible life we discover. It prays on the obvious morality issues we all deal with but also dangles the idea in front of us that everyone goes through the same joys and grievances, just not in the same way. This is a momentous tale that deserves nothing less than the title of brilliance. This visually and emotionally rich movie recalls the life of a very peculiar man born in the early 20th century who ages backwards. His tale unfolds through a diary read by the daughter of his love, Daisy. Throughout life he goes through the same things we do, growing up and eventually growing old. He's a thoughtful observer, discovering life from all different angles. But it is not his life that makes him unique. His love is what makes him special. He spends a lifetime trying to understand how his love for Daisy works and still only gets a few incredible years really loving her. As their lives tell us, the years of frustration and hardship are all worth it if only for a few moments of happiness. The direction in the film is almost flawless. Hopefully, Benjamin Button will garner David Fincher the recognition he deserves. He winds this clock so well and with such grace that the movie has this undeniable flow that is enjoyable from start to finish. At nearly 3 hours, there is not a minute wasted. Every shot is jaw dropping and while some will find issue with the time, it is used wisely. The acting is also a thing of wonder. This is by far Brad Pitt's best performance. He is so believable and realistic throughout. His nuances are spot on and despite the heavy use of make-up and CGI used to portray his character, it is Pitt who makes Benjamin that much more curious. I left the theater astonished that some one could review this movie badly. It is an extremely graceful depiction of life, love, and the things we lose. After so much anticipation I was certainly not disappointed. This movie is probably not for everyone though. It's not your average drama that spoon feeds it's audience their emotions. It is something of awe and astonishment, an absolute gem. What makes our lives memorable are the moments we never seem to grasp long enough before letting go. Life in itself is indeed very, very curious and Benjamin Button is no less of a wonder.
__label__10 Before seeing The Curious Case of Benjamin Button I wondered how I would react to the story of a man who is born old and gets younger as he grows up. Of all of the stories I have come across, this is by far the most bizarre and intriguing. If i had to pick someone to bring this story to the screen I do no think David Fincher would have been my first choice.How wrong I would have been. This film is by far one of the best if not the best of 2008. Fincher's direction is flawless! The film from start to finish does not let up. There are moments of joy and ecstasy followed by sorrow and understanding. Brad Pitt stars as Benjamin, a boy born an old man who must live his life in reverse. His friend from childhood, Daisy, is played by Cate Blanchett. The story is narrated from Benjamin's point of view with some particular highlights from Daisy.The cast does nothing wrong. Pitt leads with Blanchett and a strong performance from Taraji P. Henson as Benjamin's surrogate mother Queenie, the only person in the world who seems to understand and truly love him from the start. Other cameos along the way bring a large array of characters, including Tilda Swinton, one of Benjamin's early love interests.The film spans from the end of World War I to the the arrival of Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans. The transitions from life stage to life stage and decade to decade are seamless. Fincher does a tremendous job at maintaining a steady flow of action and dialogue. There is not a dull moment in the film. The cinematography is superb and couples nicely with Fincher's style of accentuating certain colors to enhance a mood or moment.There really is nothing wrong with this film. Even with a runtime of about 160 minutes, time just flies by, much like it does for Benjamin, only we are going forward. This is a tender and meaningful film you do not want to wish.
__label__10 This film is worthy of a 10/10 rating simply because of its imaginative and complex nature, I mean, I couldn't bring myself to know why this simple idea of a man aging backwards hadn't sprouted up before. Set all the way back at the end of the Great War, to New Orlean's meeting with Hurricane Katrina, this movie tells the story of Benjamin Button, a baby born an old man of eighty, destined to die in the mere form of a zero-year-old. I found this movie very emotional and special because there's reeally nothing like it. I honestly thought, when I found out the immense length of the film, it was going to be boring....I was wrong, it gripped me from start to finish. There are many emotional and touching scenes in it, including the end, where it brings forth Benjamin Button's 'younger' years as an old man. Nothing went wrong with the cast, Brad Pitt played a great job as a reverse-aging man, and Cate went well as his childhood friend. Overall, this movie was great and I recommend it to anyone who loves the genre.
__label__10 After having developed pretty much the most successful directorial career of the decade, Fincher just refuses to hold back his enormous talent, always picking the risky projects and churning out an exhilarating piece of work. He's come a long way as it is, and then comes along the curious "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button". The title speaks for itself. The result can be anything between a predictable romantic drama, or a stirring, magical, unforgettable, heartbreaking, intelligent, challenging experience. I'm sure you can tell which direction I'm headed.Oh, what a curious case indeed. The film begins as a child, born on the day of the end of the Great War (symbol of the beginning of life?), is abandoned by his father outside a boardinghouse dedicated for seniors. It is quickly revealed that he was born ugly and wrinkled (not quite the appearance of a child, but "still a child of God"). We don't find out immediately that he will lead his life physically aging backwards, but it is gradually revealed as he grows older, when his back begins to take shape and his wheelchair is rendered useless. What ensues after developing his bizarre nature, however, is the true core of this absolutely spellbinding masterpiece. There is always a lingering dread that his relationships will never work beyond their limited time frame, but its characters are driven by soul, not any shallow desires. The heart of the film is the relationship between Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett. Will their love survive their difficult circumstances? Mortality is the key theme of this picture, the adamant difference between young and old age. Transience is man's greatest weakness. Although it's a pretty glum and straightforward thing to say that nothing lasts, the film does not depict itself through false optimism, but rather through hope. Hope that beneath these torn souls, there is the chance of wisdom and love overcoming mortality, and it culminates a damned poignant realization. There is also a playful theme to summarize the entire film -- no matter which way you age, life will always f-ck you. Tell that to the millions of women undergoing their midlife crisis, I guarantee the results will not be pretty. I'm getting off- track now, so let me just say this is possibly the best film of the year, and many years to come.
__label__10 Brad Pitt is not just another handsome guy who's made it big in film. This guy is one hell of an actor who'll walk away with this year's Best Actor Oscar as will the movie garner 10 awards. It is simply a masterpiece; no words can aptly decribe the poignancy and beauty of this celluloid Renoir.Kudos to two geniuses who wrote it;Eric Roth and Robin Swicord,masters of imagination. To think of the idea whereby the march of time runs clockwise for the entire world but backwards for Benjamin is, in itself, masterful. The concept allows for the type of intersection of people and events which has never been shown on the screen previously. I suggest that no one reads anything about the plot because the entire impact of the film will be lost by doing so. See it with an open mind and you will be totally astounded for close to three hours. Every once in a while, a film of this brilliance comes along to take the public by storm, the last being "Million Dollar Baby," therefore get set for another movie treat of a lifetime.Simply stated: this film is NOT to be missed.
__label__10 if you've not watched this film yet then go see it, its a beautiful film. brilliantly crafted by one of my favourite and best directors around "David Fincher"...... both the leads in this should of won Oscars, especially Brad Pitt. Just seeing him going through the aging process backward in the film is beyond brilliance. Cate Blanchett is very good too as the women Brad Pitts character loves in the film. All of the actors really give it their personnel best in this timeless classic. The film is fairly straight forward even though it is weird, Brad Pitts character was born old and through the years of his life he starts to grow younger and younger. It's just an epic journey through the life of what this man comes across. The film is on for about 3 hours but when I watched it that time went very quick. I do think longer films are so much better than short ones for the fact that they are more descriptive and you can get amazed by the story more. I'm so glad this won 3 Oscars even though it could have won more. It's not Fincher's best work but it's sure a film that won't be forgotten........ 10/10....... j.d seaton
__label__10 What you need to know about this movie before you go and see it.  1. Michael Fassbender and James McAvoy are superb. Each one, alone,  would have made the movie terrific, but together? Forgetaboutit! Every  step of the way, every scene, every emotion, these two men own the  movie and watching their bromance is a treat from start to finish. Make  no mistake about it, even when the world is on the brink of utter  destruction what really matters is how these two men relate to one  another. And when you watch the movie, you will care.  2. Everyone in the cast is good. Kevin Bacon has never been better, and  Jennifer Lawrence is wonderful. Rose Byrne and January Jones aren't  given much to do, Ray Wise and Michael Ironside only have a few short  lines, but - across the board - the entire cast are a delight.  3. The story is tight. You've got a bad guy with a plan, which he sets  about executing in A/B/C fashion. Against him, the good guys work  together. Their motivations are different, of course, but they pretty  much want him stopped so they unite. That's it.  4. Charles and Erik are fascinating characters. They debate. And  viewers can debate endless about them, and about who is right, etc. As  you watch you desperately wish they could stay friends, but you  understand why they ultimately can't. Even if they themselves, in these  early days, don't understand it yet. To have that so perfectly captured  in a Summer Blockbuster movie is part of what makes this a treat and a  future classic. But, aside from their relationship to each other, the  movie takes time to make each of them interesting in his own right. We  get to see Charles as a teacher, for instance, and come to understand  how he impacts upon the lives of those he tutors. Some of Erik's best  moments (away from Charles) are in his comments to Mystique about her  appearance, making it clear that this man has more to him than the  shadow of his past.  4. Most supporting characters have very little screen time. But that's  okay, since this isn't THEIR story, really. Of the bunch, it is  Mystique and Beast who are best served. Both have terrific character  arcs that - in a lesser X-Men movie - might have been the highlight of  the film. Here, their stories serve as quality background material to  the main event (Charles and Erik). Beyond that, we just learn enough  about everyone to know what they can do and like them a little bit,  mostly through their banter and most obvious character traits. Once  scene where most of the supporting characters are clearly terrified  will certainly go a long way towards making you care about them for the  rest of the movie. On the downside: Shaw's two henchmen don't get  ANYTHING to do except use their powers, and at the end of the story we  know as much about Emma Frost as we did at the beginning. But these are  the exception, not the rule.  5. Visually, this movie is a treat. The FX are good, no surprise, but -  much better - the actual sets/costumes are beautiful. Whether it's a  remote CIA lab or a lap-dance club, whether it's the Magneto helmet or  Mystique's everyday clothes, you are always admiring 'the look' of  what's on screen.  6. There are action scenes all during the movie, but - having said that  - the movie builds as it goes. The first half is more  story-heavy/character-heavy so that when the action REALLY starts we  care about everyone. And, again, it works. Even with the scant details  given their characters, when Banshee and Havok (for example) go into  battle you are invested in them to a certain degree.  7. There are surprises. Deaths, betrayals, cameos and name-dropping.  But, as well as being cool, all of this makes perfect sense for the  story/universe of the movies.  Superb! Rock-solid script, two amazing lead performances (the film is  basically a bromance). Haven't been this excited about the X-Men  franchise since X2: X-Men United.
__label__10 Of the original trilogy, the first X-Men movie still rates the best.....until now.This prequel is an absolute stunner - from storyboard, script, mutant characters, pace, cinematography, Foley FX, VFX....you get the picture. In fact, the subtitle for this movie could also be X-Men: Origins. The poignant beginnings of Magneto and Mystique are recounted, as well as the extraordinary powers of Professor X. Yes, indeed! The good professor had plenty of goodies (and hair) in his formative years at Oxford University.....^^ I cannot wait to see X-Men prequel II and III, 3D or not.
__label__10 "X-Men: First Class" is an excellent prequel to the original "X-Men" trilogy. It has a compelling storyline chronicling the adventures of Professor X and Magneto, or should I say, Charles Xavier and Erik Lensherr before they became enemies, as depicted in the three movies that form the original "X-Men" trilogy. Not only a compelling storyline, but "First Class" also promises amazing sequences of intense action. "First Class" chronicles the adventures of Charles Xavier and Erik Lensherr before they became enemies. Set in 1962 during the Cuban Missile Crisis, the two met during a mission in which Xavier and the CIAs are trying to track down a guy named Sebastian Shaw, who apparently is a mutant and acts as a threat to the world. In that time, Xavier found Lensherr trying to stop Shaw from getting away using his mutant powers and told him to let it go as continuing to do so will result in the drowning of Lensherr and Xavier. Later, Lensherr and Xavier become allies and learn of Shaw's intentions of starting World War 3 that would bring mutants into rulers of the world with most of the world in turmoil. Xavier and Lensherr then decide to recruit other mutants and create a mini mutant army to stop Shaw from igniting the start of World War 3. Apart from stopping Shaw, "First Class" also tells the story of how Xavier and Lensherr became enemies and split the first generation of X-Men. "First Class" is truly a fantastic prequel to the popular "X-Men" series. With a compelling storyline, it has action-packed sequences that would keep audiences hooked until the end. The action sequences are much more exciting than that of "X-Men Origins: Wolverine". The fighting scenes were very entertaining and should be enjoyed by audiences. Besides the action sequences, the script, and the special effects of the film were excellent. The script had no awkward lines and the special effects of the film were real and life-like. The acting was also great and there was no problem with it. Well done!Humor also plays a role in this film. In serious moments, sometimes to cheer the audiences up, humor is added. The jokes and humor in the movie was pretty funny. Overall, "First Class" is a mesmerizing mixture of a compelling storyline, action-packed sequences, amazing special effects, and funny jokes. Matthew Vaughn has crafted a fantastic prequel that serves as a pleasant addition to the "X-Men" series (although "Wolverine" was disappointing). This movie has great storytelling and awesome sequences of intense action. In terms of recommendation, "First Class" is a must-watch summer movie that should be on your list of must-see summer blockbusters of 2011. The compelling storyline will keep audiences interested, the fighting scenes should keep audiences excited, and the special effects should make audiences satisfied with the film. Anyone disappointed with the last "X- Men" movie, "X-Men Origins: Wolverine", should be relieved after watching the new, fresh, and amazing "X-Men: First Class". "X-Men: First Class" is truly first-class entertainment. Prince AJB's Rating: 10/10 (Excellent)Thank you for reading my review on "X-Men: First Class". I do hope that this is a useful review for you to read.
__label__10 This latest film to join the X-Men franchise injects new life and vigor into the saga. It is as much of a prequel as it is a reboot. From a strictly time-line point-of-view it is a prequel, being set in the early 1960s during the Cuban Missile Crisis. But from a storyline point-of-view, it is very much a reboot, with a whole new younger cast along with whole new interesting stories and relationships to involve them in.The film goes all the way back to the beginning in 1944, in Nazi occupied Poland. Here, we are introduced to young Erik Lensherr. Erik is forced to watch his mother be shot right in front of him by Sebastian Shaw (Kevin Bacon). The uncontrollable rage Erik then feels unleashes his powers and he then goes on to trash every metal object in the room. However, he is unable to focus and use his powers against Shaw, and so the main plot of the film becomes Erik's quest for vengeance.In contrast with Erik's tragic childhood, we see the wealthy opulent lifestyle that Charles Xavier enjoyed. In this film, he meets young Mystique, and quickly adopts her as his younger sister.Cut to 1962 where the rest of the film takes place. Adult Erik, played excellently by Michael Fassbender continues on his quest for revenge against Shaw. In this film, he has not yet become Magneto. He is not the villain, in fact he is a character we all sympathize with. Inside he is still the traumatized boy who watched his mother get killed right in front of him. What I love about X-Men First Class is that it finally adds layers to Magneto's character, he isn't just a one-dimensional cartoon villain.And James McAvoy breathes new life as young adult Charles. Here, the young Professor X is a dashing English gentleman who uses witty pick-up lines on pretty college girls and chugs whole pints of beer. His expertise on mutations is what leads to his recruitment to the CIA by Moira MacTaggert (Rose Byrne). And it is through the CIA that brings Charles and Erik's paths together.McAvoy and Fassbender have amazing on screen chemistry together, and this is clearly reflected in Charles and Erik's fast developing friendship. These two men are not just friends, they really see themselves as brothers. The casting for both Charles and Erik could not have been more perfect, you can definitely see how even decades later Professor X and Magneto stay lifelong friends even if they have opposite philosophies.The other relationship that must be mentioned is the romance between young Beast (Nicholas Hoult) and young Mystique (Jennifer Lawrence). Their short-lived relationship is tragic yet poignant. It falls victim to self-hatred and the struggle for acceptance in a human society that all too often shows absolute cruelty to those who are different...........that is the key message of the X-Men and it is so beautifully played out by these two doomed lovebirds.From watching this film, you actually want Erik and Charles to continue being best friends without any of the tragedy and mutant-against-mutant fighting. But alas, we all know how it all ends, so the ending of film can't show anything different. You finally see how Charles becomes paralyzed, the whole lead-up to that scene is just epically sad yet beautiful at the same time.This was a wonderfully acted project and it also contains just the right amount of action scenes that we all love and demand from an X-Men film. I encourage you all to see it if you haven't already.
__label__10 The movie is a lot like I anticipated it to be. Special effects, plot and acting is like all its other installments, amazing. Having read the book, there are obviously scenes and parts that were 'left out' just like all the other movies that have been adapted from a novel. Especially the Mockingjay, being the last book of the trilogy, there is no room for denial that there are way too many events or scenes to incorporate in the movie. Despite that, the movie was still a thriller. Being dubbed as a war movie, there were several parts in the movie that left me on the edge of my seat, proving the movie to be action-packed. Kudos to Jennifer Lawrence for her role as Katniss Everdeen, she portrayed her exactly as Collins did in the novel throughout the whole series. The way she displayed her emotions showed no other actress could fill her void as Katniss.Part 2 however was missing a slight 'oomph' that many were expecting. Francis Lawrence wanted the movie to be exactly like the book. Yes he did achieve that, but having done that he left some important bits out. A lot of the characters in the previous movie were sidelined, like Haymitch, Effie and quite importantly, Prim. Prim was killed in the movie and her being the major reason why this story emerged, her death lacked the emotional feel that it had in the book. A possible reason behind this was because Lawrence was too focused on making this a war movie that he left behind the emotional impact on the deaths of Katniss' close family and friends. When Katniss' squad members were killed, all of them lacked the 'feel' of when someone dies, that was mainly because Francis Lawrence didn't really portray Katniss' feelings about them when they died. Yes, the movie should be as close as the book describes the plot, but to make it a better movie than it was, Francis should of shown more scenes of Prim (and of course others like Haymitch and etc) to remind the audience that she still exist and to build that tension and emotional impact we're supposed to get when Prim gets killed. In some parts of the movie when Prim or Haymitch and etc re-occurred, it kinda felt they came out of nowhere and suddenly one of them dies and I guess that sorta flawed the movie a little. On the other hand it is a huge contrast to Part 1, where it was full of emotions and less action packed, which might of been intended.On the whole, Part 2 was an amazing movie, one I'd definitely watch again, enjoyed it very much, made me proud as a hunger games fan. The twisted and depressing ending to what a lot of people thought would be a fairy tail closure is one of the many things that makes Mockingjay part 2 one of the best movies to end a franchise. Hope it smashes the blockbuster records. Part 2 ended the Hunger Games installment on a very high note. Really hoping that there's some sort of sequel or prequel!!!
__label__10 This last movie had a sweeping scope, emotional impact, and truly amazing depth. The Hunger Games isn't strictly a Girl vs. Capitol adventure, or anti war movie, it really is a tragedy,grim, dark, with poignant moments in every one of the four movies. Any who have read the books shouldn't be surprised by this. The utter cruelty of the Capitol is graphically covered, Jennifer's performance captures the sadness and determination in Katniss, and the pacing of the movie is superb. Thinking of the great arch of character and story encompassing the 3 books and 4 movies, this forth movie captures the book extremely well and is an amazing end to this exceptional series.
__label__10 Which I didn't mean by disappointing. From my point of view, it's different by the way the makers decided to end this movie. For a usual blockbuster, you expect some kind of triumph and cheeriness, especially for a finale. In this case it's not. Somehow it makes this particular 'Hunger Games' even more interesting than I thought.Taking off directly from 'Mockingjay: Part 1', Katniss, now slightly damaged, and her team of rebels are still trying to end President Snow's tyrannical leadership and create a revolution. Now that Snow has filled the Capitol with booby traps that resembles the actual Hunger Games, it is up to Katniss whether her nation can live in peace once and for all.It might sound like it is kind of an all-out-war type of movie with many thrilling obstacles to overcome. If you expect it to be like that, you'd be slightly disappointed. Not to say it's not thrilling, but it comes with a very bitter aftertaste. Unlike the previous installment, it dares to become as dark as it can be.Some reviewers here noted that this one is quite redundant and anti-climactic, making it somehow not a very satisfying experience. I have to say that it's not true. It is in some way very satisfying because of the emotional aspect that has been given by its' main character. Jennifer Lawrence played Katniss Everdeen unlike in the previous ones. She becomes more raw, more spiteful, and more tragic. Which is why the ending left me with a very large impact that gets under my skin and a moral message that winning a war is never a triumph to begin with, that it is only a chance to survive and live for another day with the cost of lives that could be lost, and that loss only becomes a waste that should have never happened.Some other complains about the pacing. While some of them are true 'cause when some people has a short attention span, it could get tedious. On the contrary, it's what makes it more intimate and absorbing, creating a sense of atmosphere that is altogether dull and beautiful at the same time.While improvements should be noted based on its' predecessor, 'Mockingjay: Part 1', that I personally still love, but doesn't give any payoff whatsoever. There's no unnecessary scenes here, but there are slow moments, which are enjoyable in the way the characters communicate with each other. It keeps building up from the beginning, finishing with a conclusion that is a bit twisted than I thought. The actors done really well, as always. No need to mention Jennifer Lawrence, who is already an Oscar caliber and on the top of the heap. She's really the one who drives this movie and giving it more layers than the script has provided. Great actors like Julianne Moore as the cold President Alma Coin and Woody Harrelson as Haymitch, who is more serious than before. Others like Elizabeth Banks, Jena Malone and Sam Claflin really supported the movie with their great character arcs. Josh Hutcherson gave Peeta more emotion and depth in this one and who surprises me the most. A noteworthy mention is for Phillip Seymour Hoffman, which I honestly knew little from his role as Truman Capote in the biographical drama 'Capote', who has a sense of attractiveness and calmness as Plutarch Heavensbee. Too bad he died too early before this movie got finished, but his absence doesn't distract anything from the movie.And that is also because of director Francis Lawrence, who also directed the previous two. He gives precision and impeccability to the movie. Script writers Danny Strong and Peter Craig keeps the film sturdy and solid without going on to cheese and cliché, and that is true and faithful to the book.For someone who was expecting a great feeling leaving the theater, I got more than I've bargained for, and in the last scenes (which I won't spoil any of it) I didn't really realize that I'm crying. Truly, that is because of Jennifer's portrayal as Katniss which hurts more than I thought. It is somewhat a non-happy happy ending. And that lingers in me long after I left the theater.Some may well be disappointed by its' outcome. But overall, I hope this movie gets more credit than it deserves. Because it not only gives a true life resonance, it's a piece of entertainment that makes you think from its' moral complexity and ambiguity. And that makes this finale somehow much more memorable and a rewarding experience than it could've been, at least in my opinion.
__label__10 The best movie out of the series! I wasn't sure how the movie would play out compared to the book but it caught me by surprise. Most endings to book made into movies are so horrible but Hunger Games Part 2 was not a disappointment to me. Everything they did was exactly what I wanted them to do. They added on a little extra ending part and didn't have to but I was already completely satisfied by that time that it didn't even matter and thought it was kinda cute they even did that. It played with my emotions perfectly and I would recommend it to anyone who is a fan of the series. This final movie really makes me want to go out and get the whole collection and have a marathon of all the films at home on the weekend :)
__label__10 Mokcingjay part 2 has a fantastic, brutal and honest look at the affects and harshness of war, coated and enriched with a deep and thoughtful exploration of the series' dark and gritty themes. It pushes the 12A certificate it owns to the max and uses it to its advantage.The film's action is spectacular. Exciting, and scorchingly intense, they further emphasise the brutality of war. As usual, the special effects are handled well and the film is shot in a swift manner. The central performances are stellar, with Jennifer Lawrence shining once again both as an actress and as Katniss. Returning cast do an excellent job, Elizabeth Banks, Woody Harrelson, Josh Hutcherson, Liam Hemsworth, Jena Malone, Philip Seymour Hoffman and the rest of the cast. The cinematography is great. The film is well filmed, colour graded and is given a slicker and darker aesthetic.The script is a bit skeletal, with some of the dialogue being more functional than empowering, but overall the cast really make good use of their material.The third act is shocking and surprising, elevating this film to new heights. Overall, fantastic work from Francis Lawrence and all his team; this film is well acted, well filmed, well paced, intense and refined with its dark and gritty drama / social commentary.Goodbye Katniss and crew, it's been a fantastic journey.
__label__10 *SPOILERS* The Hunger Games Mockingjay Part 2 starts after the events of the previous film, after Peeta unexpectedly strangles Katniss. This film focuses on the war between the districts and the capitol. It is very brutal and extremely horrifying (especially during the sewers scene), it just gives you a punch in the gut during the emotional moments. Nearly half of the squad team are killed including Finnick and Castor :( . My two favorite scenes are the sewers scene and the capitol raid scene with the parachute bombings, it was rather terrifying to watch the children get blown up and see their bodies but Francis Lawrence structured it very well, pushing the 12A rating to its maximum highest boundaries. The determination and focus of this film is just dazzling and very unexpected, Most people say why Mockingjay was split into two parts, copying harry potter and twilight. In my own opinion, it was such a relief they split it, there was so much information in Mockingjay that you just can't leave it out, every word, every feeling in both films are just terrifying and life-like. This film is truly the film you need to see. I loved it so much, I would watch it more than 20 times. Highly recommend this film and ignore the negative comments, this film will shock you with every scene. It's just astonishing and mind-blowing. Every scene (if you're a big fan) will hit you hard until you drop to the floor, crying and regretting.I remember when I first watched The Hunger Games, those times were just the best and now we have come to the conclusion after 3 years of waiting and waiting. Same with catching fire and mockingjay part 1, all the films are intense and stimulating. Probably one of the superlative film series of the 21st century (especially on young- adult section)Mockingjay: Part 2, the film that puts YA films into a serious and maturer tone.
__label__10 The final installment of the hunger games brings us an extremely satisfying, exciting, and thrilling finale to the series! The movie was action packed, intelligent, well made, very well acted and just had everything right! Jennifer Lawrence of course was incredible, so was josh hutcherson and Liam hemsworth. Julianne Moore gave a very powerful performance as well. And then there's good old Donald Southerland, who gave a very focused and poignant performance. I was so pleased with the outcome of this film! The corruption of president Coin, Katniss and Peeta ending up together! I do however wish that Finnick O'daire would have made it to see the free Panem. The visual effects are very well done here as well! I cannot think of a single flaw in the final installment of the hunger games, an overwhelmingly satisfying movie to watch!! 10/10.
__label__10 I am a Muslim belly dancer and I love watching movies in free time. This is my first comment on IMDb. The Hunger Games:Mocking Jay Part 2 is an interesting sequel to part 1. It is the story of a strong woman rebel Katnis Everdeen fighting against a dictator president. The film is entertaining with action.When you see this movie you will feel with rebels who have been oppressed and you will come to the feeling that evil doers and dictators will sooner or later get destroyed as a result of their wickedness.This movie has been achieving international success in every country of the world. It is a film for people who love justice and democracy.Me and my dear son Muhammad enjoyed this excellent movie and we definitely advise you to see because it is a perfect epic movie.
__label__10 I imagine this review will be different than most if not all reviews. I am a true 'romantic' when it comes to movies or books. I get enough real life in real life. I felt absolutely dreadful after reading the book series, and still wish I had never read it. I rated the movie a 10 on the merit of them fixing the ending of the book series. If you are a classic romantic as I am, I strongly discourage anyone reading the last book in the series if they have that option, and just see the movie for closure. In this one case, ignorance is bliss. Even so, the movie is still an emotional meat grinder, so be warned. I'll let the other reviewers describe the effects, story and whatever else may be important to them. For myself, I needed the movie, but won't ever need to see it again, or waste money on the disk, even though I own thousands...literally. I wish to be entertained when I watch movies, not emotionally drained. For those that like that sort of thing, this series is definitely for you.
__label__10 This film has such a bad name from so many people, yet I think it is a brilliant film. Some people don't realise how much effort has gone into this film. People say that everything is CGI. Not true. The only things that are CGI in the whole film are: the ship, the wave. That's it. Everything else is sets. People actually were thrown around the place. Water did come in to the ballroom. I think some people don't give this film enough credit. The first time I watched it, I was in awe. It was such a convincing film. The look of the ship and how it interacted with light made it look so real. Sure, some of the film is far-fetched. And sure, you don't get to know the people on board. But that is because of the pace. They can't stand there for half-an-hour, spewing their guts out about themselves when the ship is sinking. The pace of the film is supposed to be rushed. The ship is sinking, and it's not going to stop sinking to let the people stop for a break. So I say give the film a break. If you haven't seen it and are judging it on what your friends/ family have said, ignore them. Watch it for yourself, you may find the film is actually better than what others say. And as said in the title, give this film a chance to shine, it's better than what people say
__label__10 Alice Kingsleigh has spent the past three years following in her father's footsteps and sailing the high seas. Upon her return to London from China, she comes across a difficult decision that may determine what she's going to do during the rest of her life. After re-encountering Absolem, she finds a magical looking glass and returns to the nonsensical realm of Wonderland.Alice discovers that things are going very wrong with the Hatter, who is now acting madder than usual, haunted by past events that he refuses to reveal. In order to prevent a heartbreaking end to her friend, she turns to Time himself. Despite his warnings about Alice not being able to win a race against time, and not being able to change the past, she borrows the Chronosphere, a time device that everyone (including the now banished Red Queen) wants, and winds up returning to the past.As Alice witnesses the hits and misses of friends (and enemies) during their lives, discovering how it prompted them to their current states in the present, she may learn how to solve not only the problem with the Hatter, but her own back in London – but only if she can win the race against the ticking Chronosphere.
__label__10 The CGI is amazing and the story brilliant. You get a bit more information about different characters and their background but there is also a message behind the story. It's the message that makes this movie special. Something you can relate to, especially if you have been through some rough times and time hasn't always been on your side. The music in the first movie was great and so was the music in this movie, really makes a movie more enjoyable if it has good music.I really really liked it, beautifully made and great story. It is an odd movie but what else would you expect? Just the right amount of action, story and humour for me :)Rest in peace Alan Rickman, Absolem.
__label__10 OK, I know this movie hasn't gotten the BEST reviews but I personally think it is absolutely AMAZING!There's humor in here for everyone, from simple baby fart jokes to a very well done reference to Paul McCartney's animated short "The Frog Song", and if you're concerned about King Harold (Fiona's frog father) passing away, You don't have to worry, I can guarantee you that you will NEVER find a death scene funnier than his. (Or a funeral scene for that matter.)The new characters are a wonderful addition to the constantly extending family, Merlin and Artie just to name some.The Dronkeys from the second film make several appearances and Dragon has much more screen time than she did in Shrek 2, a good thing for me.And if all of THAT doesn't make you want to see the film, you've got three absolutely adorable Ogre triplets to meet at the end of the film. (Sorry guys, they don't have names yet) These three little bundles of fun steal the scene they are in and are definitely going to be the new favorite characters of any little girl you bring to the film.For all you teenage girls out there; Artie is REALLY cute.Merlin will probably be more popular with the adults in your group, considering the fact that most jokes revolving around him are adult centered. (I found him disturbing to be honest)Highlights include; .Artie going into a full scale, fake crying fit when Merlin refuses to help them save Far Far away. .Puss attempting to do his legendary "sad eye" routine while in Donkey's Body. .Donkey singing the chorus of "Cat's In The Cradle" in order to cheer up Shrek after he worries about being a dad.And I'm guessing that the scene that will go down in history as the funniest scene in this film is Shrek's Nightmare about being a father, and the reactions that come from it.The actors once again to a WONDERFUL job with their voicing and Justin Timberlake makes for a nice fresh young addition to the family. Fiona's Gal Pals, Cinderella, Rapunzel, Snow White, Sleeping Beauty and Doris (From the second film) are also wonderfully done. IF you enjoyed the first two films, then you will LOVE this one. Oh, but you MIGHT want to have an answer ready for the inevitable "Where do babies come from?" question if you bring a young child... there's so much talk about babies and preparing for them to come in this film (Donkey serves as an EXCELLENT source for some early on in the film new dad jokes) that they will certainly want to know.
__label__10 I didn't have any expectations for this film,and it completely blew me away!Visuals were stunning,acting really surprised me,action was incredible.I really can't wait for the sequel cause the ending set it up really well.Magic was also pretty damn cool.Orgrim was a ferocious bad ass.It was a damn fine film,best of the 2016 dare i say.Bring on more,and it finally broke the video game movie curse!Go see it,you won't regret it!10 out of 10 for me!I think that it will have a good reception from audiences and critics.Warcraft fans will love it.Direction was amazing,one of the best motion capture for a film i've seen,i really hope it does well in the box office and review department cause it was really amazing!
__label__10 ...but oh was I thankful for it!!! All through the movie I kept on having this big large smile sculpted into my face. For the record, I'm 25 years old, and I've played warcraft and wow for many years since when I was 13 or 14 years old. Ever since then, I haven't stopped playing. Therefore you can count me as a fan. Now onto the movie... Gosh, I saw it at a pre-screening, and I kept wanting more of it. It just never gets boring! I really enjoyed the little stuff that is found throughout the movie for the fans. I also incredibly enjoyed the intro sequence.Those who argue the movie cuts too many parts or that it changes the story too much are totally wrong. This movie could not have shown the whole first time in its entirety - keep in mind that the lore lasts well over ten hours, making a movie this long would, well, make it way too long and besides, how would you financially sustain such a project? OK, so there are changes in the movie - well, this is Duncan's vision of it. All of us have our own visions of the lore and books which may or may not be compatible with that of Duncan's, but I can safely assume that nobody can say they have a hundred percent the same vision of the story as Chris Metzen; that's the thing with story: each player / reader has a different vision of it. As for me, I was blown away. Never before have I felt so much at home in a movie, it is as if I had taken a walk in the town where I grew up, Stormwind, Goldshire, Ironforge, everything felt so much like home, I was moved. I cannot tell of another movie that had me shed tears just by seeing a landscape on screen.As for the changes, well, I found good reasons behind all of them, and let me tell you right away, yes, maybe coming from a fan it will look like absolute heresy, but I enjoyed the story a lot. The actors were great, they were a lot into their characters, and for the first time, I had never seen orcs in such detail before, hulky, robust, terrifyingly but also relative.Quite frankly, I can't wait for the next movie... In the meantime, I'll watch this one over and over again when I can. This movie has everything that a good movie needs to have, and more. Plus, it just might bring more people to actually play WoW. Parents, maybe some scenes will frighten your kids, but this movie has almost NO blood (even though it has a good share of battle) and the foes are undeniably evil, plus it has good values in it - friendship, courage, responsibility, sacrifice for a good cause, and the belief that anyone can help to change things. That will go down in history as being one of the best ever, for sure.
__label__10 I actually thought this film would be bad. Like most other video game movies I thought this was going to be a massive flop and just suck. This movie broke the video game movie curse with style. WarCraft surprised me even though I am a WarCraft fan.If there are sequels WarCraft could easily be this generations equivalent of The Lord of the Rings. The acting was great, the effects were spot on and the action was epic. I was really impressed with the motion capture on the orcs, they looked amazing. Travis Fimmel as Anduin Lothar was a good choice. He did a really good job of portraying the lion of Stormwind. WarCraft has a lot of lore that could easily be made into a film series and I think this film did a good job of establishing the world of WarCraft for future sequels. Do I recommend watching WarCraft? Yes, WarCraft is a movie everyone can enjoy, although it may be too intense and violent for younger children. If you were a fan of the games there are Easter eggs for you. If you have never heard of WarCraft you will be amazed by the world and want more.
__label__10 *** This review may contain spoilers ***I was lucky enough to get an invite to watch the movie in LA 2 weeks ago, in a screening about press.I was the only one foreign guy there(Cyprus but got invited since i am making my after-master practise here).I have to note to everyone here that i am aware of World of Warcraft and the Warcraft games as IPs but i've never played any of them.I am a huge Fantasy genre lover and this movie exceeded my expectations. My biggest concern minutes before movie aired was the quality of the CGI.I Knew this movie uses a lot of CGI.Well the CGI is breathtaking easily equal or better to AVatar and Dawn of the Apes, equally to JUngle book(what a great movie!) BUT with the difference that it is used in massive scale, which makes it even more impressive. Watching Hundreads of Orcs with unique characteristics and facials is mind boggling(with the positive way of meaning).Orcs are beautifully beautifully made, main character Durotan is just awesome he is my favourite character, HUmans are OK at start i had an issue with how armors looked but people told me it is exactly how in-game is.IN terms of acting Ben Foster is hands down the best performer also Paula Patton and Travis Fimmel are nice, rest of the cast its slightly above average not great, but serviceable. Orcs overall are better portrayed than Humans, BUT thats the important thing if CGI was bad in this movie i would be really turned off, but the CGI is perfect so i can easily bypass the fact that 2-3 human chars weren't the best.I Loved the plot, it is so rich and u can easily understand why some people said that this movie isn't even the 15% of the whole Warcraft Lore.Duncan Jones has done a great job for non-fans like me to easily udnerstand the movie, even though there are a few times that let u hanging which proposes hinds for a sequel.Visuals are stunning and we can see probably the best implementation of magic that has been made in a movie.Summing up this is a MUST watch for every person that loves Fantasy genre, easily the best fantasy movie after the last LoTR release(IT would be at LOtr level with 2-3 more decent actors). ANd easily the best video-game adaptation that has been made. 1-- Breathtaking CGI 2-- It feels more like a movie(rather than a video game movie) 3-- Incredible and rich lore/plot, Warcraft universe is HUge and after this movie i really want to explore it.Give this movie a chance i know many are sceptical to any video-game adaptation, but this one it wont disappoint u.
__label__10 Hello. First of all i have to tell you, i am a Warcraft fan and i had no expectations from this movie at all. I am NOT a Blizzard fan boy and i know when they do something poor and when they do something good.If you like the cinematics that they make and if you like LOTR like me and fantasy, you will absolutely love this movie. I was really scared about this movie being another video game movie chaos. Not by a landslide.Warcraft is astonishing. The visuals are ground breaking, the acting is very strong and the emotional involvement between the viewer and the movie is breath taking. The familiar zones from Warcraft universe are all and are built exactly how they are suppose to be built, every Warcraft fan will feel like home and on the brink of shedding tears. I will watch this movie again in 10 June and gather all my friends that were not lucky enough to see it yet and go again, maybe twice. I need more, there has to be more Warcraft movies. Dunca Jones working alongside with Blizzard was a genius move and it shows throughout the movie. Almost 2 hours of pure awesomeness. 10/10 from me. GO SEE THIS MOVIE, you will not regret it !
__label__10 I don't want to give away anything, but my god was this movie amazing! The motion capture was superb, the acting superb, and the plot itself was great. For the Warcraft fans you will see plenty of easter eggs that will make you grin or laugh. Over all it's what of my favorite movies I have seen this year.I went to an early screening with my girlfriend and a friend of mine and even though they know nothing of the storyline or world of Azeroth, they absolutely enjoyed it. The characters were awesome (Duncan Jones did amazing) and so were the actors. From what I could gather, the entire crowd who went to see it enjoyed it.
__label__10 Watched this movie in a IMAX 3D theater. The sound makes it well worth seeing in a theater with a state of the art sound system. The Orcs are believable from the start. Well rounded characters with great motivation. The motion capture work by the actors was a work of passion.Ben Foster and Ben Schnetzer did a wonderful job playing the magic wielding Mages. Perfect depth, effort and really showing the strain magic has on the human body.Paula Patton did a fantastic job with Garona. Duncan Jones made a compelling ass kicking female character. But more important for the fanboys, feel comfortable bring non-WoW playing friends and families to the movie. All non-WoW movie goers seem to enjoy the movie and really liked the CGI.
__label__10 Just seen it with a bunch of friends and it was amazing. My friends who came with me aren't even Warcraft fans and they even said they can't wait for a sequel, they said it was nothing like they expected, which is another shitty fantasy movie. They were on the edge of their seats the whole time and wanting more! Whenever they'd show Easter eggs in the background i'd go nuts and they had no clue why but they were too busy being into the movie to care to ask. I CANNOT WAIT to see another one of these movies!!! I even noticed a lot of people outside the theater who have never played the games or know anything about it, loved it. I even talked with an older couple for a good 10 minutes who loved it but didn't understand a few things and i cleared it up for them, they were very thankful. They were excited for another movie too!
__label__10 A lot of of spoilers, please be warned.I don't usually write movie reviews, if I like it I'll watch it again, if I hate it then I'll forget it. But I write it anyway because I think Warcraft: The Beginning is not terrible as most critics rated.Unlike most fantasy movies, Warcraft offers something different in plot: there is no good side or bad side, they are just people who need to survive, but evil always finds its way to corrupt them. I think it's a fresh idea to start with. The story is kinda fast- paced, but we can still follow it. It's not exactly the same as the lore, there are some crucial event are alternated in this movie, but still acceptable - unless for some lore-nerd who like to boast their knowledge by complaining every little difference. The ending is very promising for sequels. I'm pretty sure most players want to see how little Go'el become a great Warchief.I really love the CGI. As the director said, it's like a prop and they used it the right way. Perhaps non-Warcraft-gamers would feel weird to see the orc design (since the orcs in LoTR version are like zombies), but this is how Warcraft's Orc look like. The score is great, it's so Warcraft, and actually I want to hear more like it. The actor are doing their job the best they can, even though I personally have a little issue with Garona (not her appearance or acting, but I expected her to be stronger and cunning, like how Draka killed the orc who after her). Since my heart lies with The Horde, I had hard time to see Durotan killed (Toby Kebbell is really a good actor, he was too underrated). But hey, this movie made me unable to hate The Alliance because anyone who become the prison guard made me laugh! My suggestion for players, do watch this movie as Duncan Jonas' Warcraft. And for non-players, do a little research before judging this movie blindly. In my opinion, Warcraft offers better story line than Avatar and better races design than LoTR.
__label__10 I am a massive Terminator 1 and 2 fan, I disliked 3 and 4 a lot and I really thought this would be terrible as well! However I turned out to be wrong! Dead Wrong! This film has the best Arnold character of them all! He is the most 'human' towards Sarah and I really loved that connection, I can see many people liking it also. It was reminiscent of John Connor and Arnold from T2 which I just saw today... I remember seeing the first trailer and having many problems. I thought the story line was too complicated and wasn't respectful of the older films and I thought the visuals were bad. I was wrong in both cases. The story pays massive respect to James Camerons first two classics! And it wasn't complicated for me. It was a fun story and kept my eyes on the screen. Also the visuals... wow the visuals... I know people said that we will never be shocked again by visuals like we were in T2 and the first Jurassic Park! But the young T800 looks too good to ignore. Wow! The best animation I've ever seen, I can't see the difference between him and the real one. This is a fun, humorous, emotional action flick that shouldn't be ignored! I loved it! And you know what, I'm not ashamed! Alan Taylor deserves praise! P.S. I love the soundtrack, I hand it to Lorne Balfe who I know makes great soundtracks from Assassins creed!
