__label__2 Don't waste your money, The Dark Knight was terribly awesome, every scene in that film as stand alone is better than this film. It was overcrowded with characters, half of whom don't really add to the story, while taking up valuable screen time of the main characters. It missed Batman, this was essentially a film about Bruce Wayne and his problems. The story isn't just about good versus evil (which worked great in The Dark knight and helps focus the film's plot) but wants to explore all kinds of societies problems such as the stock market, evil bankers ('I have my money under the mattress' ("you evil bankster") and Occupy. Rather then exploring these themes thoroughly it just touches them and then moves on forgetting all about it. Further more, the action is really, really weak! This is a big issue for me since I love action movies, maybe other people will not care as much. But the fighting scenes between Batman and Bane are laughable. Just hitting each other in slow motion, my god, the guy threatens to kill 12 million people but Batman adheres to his code?? It worked great in The Dark Knight, since the Joker was essentially creating chaos, not direct annihilation of a city, but in this film it is totally out of context. That scene where 300 cops run into a fortified position of bad guys armed with AK-47's? OH REALLY?! Where were Batman's gadgets? Not the overblown helicopter thing (my god what an inconspicuous piece of engineering) but the subtle stuff, the smoke, the batclaw, whatever. Just like 007 missing Q, it just doesn't work. They had to repeat some amazing turn with his bike twice in the film just to show something reasonable interesting in the way of action, in Avengers this would have been in the background, once. Blurred. The stadium scene. Mehh, seen it already seventy times in the trailer. Oh.. The film drags on for an amazing 165 minutes! They would have had a better film cutting it with 60 minutes. It would have helped them focus and cut unnecessary scenes (alot you say? Yes!). But the biggest problems with this film is the random stuff that completely sucks: Openingscene: kidnap that doctor? OK. huh whats with the tube and the blood, ehm why do only Bane and that guy hang there after it crashes down when moments before there were like 6 bad guys in the plain on ropes? Huh oh never mind next scene! Why why WHY does Bane hate batman so much? It is insinuated for most of the movie that Batman killed his father, but in the end it shows Bane has no real connection to Batman what so ever? Strange..And that prison/dark pit, in which no sunlight ever shines? ITS LIT UP WITH THE SUN THE ENTIRE FILM! Why do they keep talking on ice where everybody who steps foot on it falls through and dies? Thanks for saving me, lets continue the talk over there where we won't DIE? Yeah let's kill the bad guy, not by batman but a support character, introduce the real villain, and kill her in a car crash 5 minutes later. And damnnnnn the acting in that scene deserves a razzie. Better love story than twilight! Yes Batman, everybody knows you are Bruce Wayne, you can start talking normal, saves you the cough the day after. Bane.. ? Like three people SAY Bane is amazing big etc. But as a viewer, you don't see it, you just don't feel the menace, nothing. Because Bane isn't AT ALL MENACING OR BIG OR SCARY!! His voice, what a failure. Born in the Darkness! .. 140 minutes later, oh no, he wasn't? Or was he? No matter, he's dead. Let's not mention him again in the rest of the film. Robin. Don't get me started. SAVE THE CITY! EXODUS! DRIVE A BUS WITH 15 CHILDREN TO THE BRIDGE AND FAIL IN GETTING THEM ACROSS HAHAHAHAHAHA! Lucius Fox was in this movie?Let's insinuate that Bane's goones are terrible and so committed and 'where does he get these guys?' Oh lets not explain that, lets move on to some surgeon in a prison in a foreign country, whos story we don't CARE ABOUT! AT ALL! PEETIME! Government does not negotiate with terrorists! Next scene, 'they made a deal!' Sigh Etc
__label__2 OK, I'm a HUGE fan of Spiderman...Liked the first movie, LOVED the second flick and was dying to see the third one. And since I live in Korea, I was able to see the movie tonight (SM3 opened in Asia 3 days before it opens in North America). I'm sad to say, I was let down by the third film.The biggest issue by far is the fact that there are FAR too many story lines going on at once. The movie feels very bogged down and not nearly enough time is given for proper character development.In this movie, there is Spiderman, Mary Jane, Gwen Stacey, "New" Goblin Venom and Sandman. Each character is given the bare amount of time for development.I'm assuming that since most of the cast is non-committal to returning for a fourth movie, the filmmakers decided to throw as many stories into this movie in case it was the end. It really takes away from the movie as a whole.The other big issue I have is the very forced sense of humor the movie tries to take. From a very lame riff on John Travolta's walk from "Saturday night fever" to watching Peter Parker dance to jazz music, a lot of the humor feels like it's was written for a SNL sketch.There is a very poor ending involving Spiderman and Sandman that defies logic.I sincerely hope this is NOT the last Spiderman film, because if it is, it's certainly not the best way for the series to end. None of the magic and originality of the second film are here. I hope that a decision is made to do a fourth film and I hope if a fourth film is made, the filmmakers decide to go back to what made the second film so special.** out of *****
__label__2 As an avid reader of the HP book series, and a devout HP movie fan, the sixth installment came up short in almost every aspect of the film.From a purely cinematographic point of view, the dialogue was rushed, the almost non-existent plot focused too much on minor relationships and details, and none of the scenes elicited the response intended. It was difficult for a scene to last one minute, let alone thirty seconds. The climax was not given enough time to fully develop, and the story ended so abruptly even I was left with a sense of confusion. I cannot imagine how anyone who has not read the books could have followed the plot line at all.When viewing the film with the book fresh in mind, the movie fell so far below expectations it is the greatest disappointment movie-wise to date. The team managed to take a complex, intricate, well-written novel and turn it into a fast-pasted, over-hormonal, and unemotional movie. When I think of the Half Blood Prince, I think of the main purpose to be getting horcruxes, not getting laid. When I initially heard about the fake scene at the Burrow I had an open mind, and figured it would play into the plot. After viewing however, I can only see it as a waste of time, because the only character it introduced was Greyback, but you never heard of him again through the entire movie until the very end--in which he did nothing.The fact that the battle at Hogwarts was left out gives the whole movie an anti-climatic feel. The movie barely even hits on Voldemort's past or what horcruxes are, and the cave scene was dry and unemotional. Dumbledore's death and Snape's betrayal did not elicit any response from me or any of my peers that saw the movie with me. At the end of the movie the audience should be lamenting Dumbledore's horrific death, but the movie moved so fast it was hard to truly wrap your mind around one scene before another began.All in all I found this movie horribly disappointing. The only actor who I saw any significant improvement in was Emma Watson, everyone else seemed cold and unattached. I sincerely hope the seventh movie will be better.
__label__2 I agree with several others.... Did the director even READ the book? Does he know what a book is?? Look, Hollywood, you take a great book and make a film out of it for one reason alone: you want fans of the book to come see their favorite story come to life.YOU DON'T BUTCHER IT! Anyone else completely disappointed with the way Harry and Ginny's first kiss was filmed? It should NOT have been contrived by Ginny, but a complete surprise to BOTH of them, and done in the Gryffindor common room in front of the whole house! That being said, how did Hermione and Ron catch wind of it? They weren't there! This was the worst directed film of the whole series. I can appreciate needing to change a few things, even leaving some things out, after all you only have 2 to 2 1/2 hrs to tell the whole story, but why change that scene?? It served no purpose whatsoever! I could go on and on, but I'm just sick at heart...... J.K. .... why did you let them do this to your wonderful story?
__label__2 Actually, I like Daniel Craig as Bond, and I think Olga Kurylenko is hot, and I'm perfectly happy to do without all the gadgets. However, if you're going to make a Bond movie to look as if it were a serious spy movie, it has to make at least a modicum of sense, and scene for scene, this was the most brainless Bond ever (and I'm including some very silly Roger Moore vehicles). Why is Bond going to such lengths to save a girl he just met in a car from a trap she just walked open-eyed into? How does he know it's a trap? And why does he care? Why, having figured out the method by which the leaders of an ultra secret organization communicate with one another, does he immediately tell them that he knows? Most un-spy like, if you ask me. Why is it so important the Giancarlo Gianini character return with Bond to Bolivia? What does he have to contribute? Plane fare? Why does M crack down on Bond, then thirty seconds later say she trusts him? What has changed in that half minute? Why does Bond choose to go after the villain when he does? Is it really necessary to make his move when the guy is in a heavily guarded facility? Couldn't he just wait until he comes out? The whole thing was just absurd. And when played straight as a shoot-em-up action film with no crazy comedy or gimmick-based stunts, the absurdity just becomes more visible.
__label__2 Well, with SO many good movies coming out this summer, Caspian was one that was up on my list. I knew that they were making it, so I read the book to my daughter last year, and I was really excited. And you have to understand that having 2 small children and trying to get to a movie is no small feat. However, we made our escape tonight to a later showing. So, after seeing "The Lion, Witch and the Wardrobe", I thought Caspian would be the same. By same I mean, like thinking the writers of the screenplay had actually READ THE BOOK! I was SO disappointed (thinking in my head during the movie...should have seen Ironman...should have seen Ironman...should have seen Ironman)!Sorry, but these C.S. Lewis books are near and dear to their fans hearts and I felt like the Lion, Witch and the Wardrobe stuck SO closely to the book and did such a fabulous job at adding only inconsequential fillers. I really feel that was just BAIT to get us to see the rest of them. I can NOT recommend this movie, Caspian, because it felt like the screen writer used his teenage daughter to help cast it and help write it. For those of us in our party who had NOT read the book, the reviews were mixed. One fell asleep; one thought it was disconnected and didn't make sense; two liked it because they are TEENAGERS! So, if you are a teenager, and can't READ...then go for it baby!!! AND if you're a girl teenager, Caspian is HOT (I kept expecting him to fling his hair like Prince Charming in Shrek2) and Peter is looking fine and Edmund is adorable and will be mega-handsome as he ages. But, if you are over 25 and HAVE read the book...stay home (or go see Ironman).I really, really believe that it would have been even MORE exciting had they stuck closer to the story and events of the book. What a great story!!! I just don't get why they didn't. There's NO love interest between Susan and Caspian (actually, I do think that Caspian should have been MUCH younger too). They don't ever go back to the castle do they? One of the best parts of the story (book) was Trumpkin's disbelief and wonderful revelation at seeing Aslan for the first time. Of course these Narnians didn't believe about Aslan either, he'd been gone for like 1,300 years! So, they all were TOO quick to believe. And I have to say there was NO character development for Doctor Cornelius either. That's so sad since he really is one of the VERY main characters! Why change also that Caspian didn't just get knocked out when he hit a tree and then woke up (and WHY in the HECK was Trumpkin gone already???) So, so many errors and unnecessary changes...ARG! Peter and Caspian do NOT fight. Peter doesn't have any "problems" as portrayed in the film. What the heck was going on in that screenwriter's head (or his teenage daughter's)???? WAY, WAY too many things were different! There was NO White Witch (and by the way, HOW do you kill someone who is already dead?). She was merely talked about. I did NOT expect the story to be completely changed in SO many parts. Hey, you know you shouldn't screw with a Mom who can only get out a few times a year. Crap, the last movie we saw in the theaters was Transformers...can't you give a girl a break??? I was SO distracted by the lack of following the story, that I don't even think I could tell you if I would have liked it having not read the book. Very disappointed Disney, Walden, whomever! Shame on you! If you liked the book, you won't like the movie. Just see the Lion, Witch and Wardrobe again and it will make it alright. (Why didn't I go see Ironman?)
__label__2 Disney continues the C.S. Lewis' Narnia tales, but this time makes a boring, over-long, disappointing movie.The setup: After returning to England for a year, the four Pevensie siblings respond to a horn calling for help and return to the magical land of Narnia, only to find that in Narnia 1,300 years have passed. Their old castle is in ruins, and it develops that Narnia has been conquered by some people called Telmarines, who have the accents, spade beards, and helmets of stereotypical Spanish conquistadors. Prince Caspian, who called for help, is one of'em, but his uncle wants him dead so the uncle can become king. The intrepid Pevensie quartet size up the situation and decide to help Caspian and simultaneously rid Narnia of the invaders, with the aid of the usual Narnian characters, including dwarfs, centaurs, a talking badger, and a talkative mouse whose manner & dialog were stolen from Antonio Banderas' Puss-in-Boots in "Shrek 2". Aslan makes a brief but effective (plotwise) appearance near the end but my fave villainess, Tilda Swinton as the White Witch, has only an all-too-short cameo.I thought the plot was erratically developed and the dialog occasionally funny but pretty much unimaginatively routine for high-fantasy stories. My big problem was that I was never brought to care for any of the characters, whose motivations are murky. The young cast put no emotion into their parts.I found myself realizing that I was bored several times during the flick's 2 hour & 24 minute length. The whole purpose of the movie seemed to be just to set up the big climactic CGI battle at the end. Unfortunately, the CGI was not up to Peter Jackson's standards, even tho it included a forest of trees that turned into Ents and a flood that copied a scene from "The Fellowship of the Ring".My favorite moment came in a scene toward the end, when Prince Caspian had his evil uncle at sword point, with both characters talking in their Spanish accents. I wanted to yell out the perfect line for our hero to say: "My name is Prince Caspian. You murdered my father. Prepare to die!" Heck, since most of the flick was derivative of the "Lord of the Rings" movies, why not throw in some "Princess Bride", too?
__label__2 I had such high hopes for this movie...I have always loved Narnia for as long as I can remember, and while Prince Caspian wasn't my favorite one of the books, I still loved the character of Caspian and was looking forward to seeing him, and Reepicheep, and Trumpkin, and all the others...Well. The whole feel of the storyline was messed up. The book is much more gentle -- you get to know so many of the characters so much better. There are three scenes that I particularly miss: Caspian meeting the Bulgey Bears and Patterkin and the centaurs one-by- one as Nikabrik and Trumpkin and Trufflehunter take him through the woods; the first battle (the REAL first battle, not the ridiculous storming-the-castle thing) where Caspian fails miserably...but it's so tragically funny, because of this giant who has a head-cold and fought badly because of it, so he drips tears onto a poor small fox (bad explanation, wonderful piece of writing tho); and the part with Bacchus and Lucy and Susan, where they free this village, and Aslan does a few miracles, and it's just a lovely "romp", I believe the book calls it. Three of my favorite parts, left out.Now, what did they put in? Well, for starters, it moved far too quickly in the beginning -- one is supposed to see how miserably Caspian failed on his own before Peter et. al. get there (in the book, this is all read as a flashback. The kids rescue Trumpkin and he explains how he got in that position.), and then the children go off to Aslan's How (taking the bear they killed with them for food, by the way, cause they travel for about three days). They see Aslan one at a time -- Lucy, Edmund, Susan, Peter, Trumpkin (who gets tossed about by Aslan, another great scene). I don't remember a great deal of how the plot goes after that...well, the meeting between Caspian and Peter occurs right when Caspian's discussing the White Witch with the werewolf, the hag, and Nikabrik. Not so. Instead, there's a need for a power battle between Caspian and Peter! And then they go off and talk, blah blah blah, and then they storm Miraz's castle. Seriously??!? OH MY GOODNESS. And Susan shoots Miraz's wife? (By the way, Miraz is excellent. They did him well.)I could go on and on and on...the humor is obviously forced, what is UP with Susan and Caspian, seriously, etc., etc., etc.Suffice to say, if you adore the books, don't watch the movie.Only redeeming quality: the cinematography had some brilliant moments. Battle between Peter and Miraz? Beautiful. Scenes with Aslan? Beautiful. However! That castle scene wasn't done nearly as well...Oh well.At this rate, Voyage of the Dawn Treader will be an epic sea battle.
__label__2 The only good thing about this movie was that it is visually appealing, from the special effects to the scenery to Ben Barnes. How Kyle Smith could say "it isn't so overtly Christian" is unfathomable, unless he's had no exposure to Christianity whatsoever.My biggest problem with the movie relates to that: in an Epic fantasy, the heroes earn their victory, and the lessons they learn from their mistakes along the way help them achieve it. In this movie, while the "heroes" do learn a few small things, victory is achieved not through their efforts, but rather because a little girl "believes". Even that is not a big challenge: she knows he's real because she's worked with him before. The only question is whether or not these particular visions are real, and if he's trying to help, what's the point in only letting one person see him? Letting hundreds of people die until some chosen person comes to beg for help is reason for disdain, not adoration.If I hadn't been there with friends, this would have been only the second movie I've ever walked out of, at about the point when she went off to fetch him and I realized that they were going to end the movie with "deus ex machina".
__label__2 Essentially a third rate comedy dressed up with boring and excessive special effects, this one is about half as good as a Three Stooges short subject. Lots of big dollars squandered in order to jack the price up to the reported $17.50 price. We paid $8.25 and saw it in 2D; just fine.Old timers can remember when we watched a comedy there were many people laughing. Sweet memory! This time there were maybe two knee-slap laughs. There was no significant laughter going on at our showing.They ought to have spent $200 or so on a historian. I was OK with the fish monster and some of the other sight gags, but Will Smith could not have stolen the Cadillac from in front of the Roosevelt Hotel in 1969 because that property was closed and boarded up. Few tourists in NYC due to extreme crime problems. Similarly, they show us normal "family crowd" folks enjoying Coney Island. Not in 1969, folks! As New York was sinking in a cess pool of drugs, violent crime, corruption and losing 20% of its population, visit Coney Island with two large friends for a hot dog at Nathan's; walk in any direction past blocks and blocks of boarded up abandoned houses, many with the boards ripped off by the heroin addicted squatters. Families being happy? No way! Today, sure; not in 1969, not 5 years prior or 10 years after. The story need not have been in NYC, but if so they ought not paint a false picture of it.
__label__2 This has to be Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jone's worst movies. The jokes are not funny at all. The enemy or the arch nemesis is a joke and I wasn't sure if he was supposed to be funny of if he was just goofy. There are a few laughs here and there although the movie goes through about 1 hour with nothing happening. It is just people talking here and there.Even the special effects are very minimal and somewhat B-Grade at times. The lines in this movie are awful. Huge disappointment for me. This is the first time I have been let down by both Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones who have been done a disservice by the Director and the writers of this third edition of MIB.
__label__2 Peter Jackson, with this new trilogy, which adapts a somewhat long children's fairy tale into a three-part action epic, each movie being three hours long and delving into completely irrelevant stories that are only hinted at in Tolkien's body of work, has really destroyed his reputation as the Tolkien translator. He will always live in the shadow of The Lord of the Rings, which is a sumptuous, beautiful, heartrending, thrilling masterpiece.I don't know what happened. But Jackson sacrificed tone, realism, characterization, and story when he adapted The Hobbit. It is unrecognizable as work by the same director.There are so many problems with this trilogy and this movie that is nigh impossible to list them. Nearly every scene is a real travesty, and the whole operation is an affront to the source material and fans of LOTR. The movies make hyper-violent beheadings and mass slaughter into orgies of staged action sequences and dumb gags. The orcs, which are now entirely computer-generated, are no longer compelling or realistic, and they are seemingly significantly more fearsome than in LOTR... It takes what the audience understands about Middle Earth and makes it BIGGER, in a completely childish overextension of the original story, to make things even more epic! Were-worms and enormous bats - these don't exist in the larger and more climactic battle in LOTR, but sure, they existed back then, right? Sure! Jackson also turns characters into absolutely ridiculous flat caricatures. Thranduil, the bourgeois blue-blood riding an elk, Dain, Thorin's cousin, who rests his enormous high- pitched Scottish girth on a wild boar, the she- elf who falls in love with a dwarf... It's stomach churning how Peter Jackson has combined a love for extreme violence and an eye for juvenile gags and unbelievable characters, and in a beloved, classic setting.This movie, once again, extends Legolas past human bounds, past elven bounds, past the bounds of Newtonian physics, as he sprints, newly cyan eyes shining, on falling bricks and hangs from bats. We get to watch dwarfs behead seiging armies of orcs, who are impotent to the blows of the tiny Olympians. Again, oh no!, Middle Earth is doomed, the age of men is over, (cue slow-motion shots of Gandalf looking stricken, Thorin killing orcs with Sparta kicks)... The feel, the script, the look is all taken from LOTR and rehashed with this cast of cardboard characters, in a badly rendered world of excess and fancy.I expected mature film-making for thoughtful audiences expecting real characters living in a real world with a compelling story, but obviously that was too much to expect.If one of the important themes of The Hobbit is the rejection of greed, as we can see personified by Thorin, then is it hypocritical that Hollywood has churned out three abominably shallow and violent films out of The Hobbit for the public's consumption? I think so. I hate what these films represent, and what they could have done.
__label__2 I first experienced The Hobbit at the age of 4, when my mother read it to me, and I have been a Tolkien fan ever since. And I have been generally disappointed with Peter Jackson's take on The Hobbit since the beginning. Jackson abused the mythos, struck out trying to turn a lighthearted children's book into a trio of Serious Epics, and created bloated, endless action scenes that did nothing to legitimately advance the plot (before this film, the barrel-battle and the golden dragon-dip were the most egregious). I honestly could not think of a single scene which was not addressed more effectively in the cheap 1970s cartoon. And I found it painfully obvious that Jackson was trying to cheat his way to success by hitting all of the same notes as he did in the Lord of the Rings films, whether or not they made sense in this context (the character Tauriel exists solely to be Arwen; the character Alfrid exists solely to be Wormtongue).That last point is far and away my greatest complaint about the final effort. I almost didn't believe what I was seeing: the ridiculous, eternal Battle of Five Armies wasn't just reminiscent of Helm's Deep and Minas Tirith, it WAS those battles, shot for shot. Jackson literally plopped the same choreography from his good trilogy into this film and called it done. It's bad film-making, it's lazy, and it's just an inexcusable, cynical cash-grab. For instance:-In the lead-up to Helm's Deep, a scared, desperate people streamed (left to right) over barren countryside into the fortress. In BOFA, a scared, desperate people streamed (left to right) over barren countryside into the ruins of Dale. -Characters hidden on a rocky outcropping witness the gates of a great enemy fortress open. A massive army streams out, while its general urges them onward from above. Is that Frodo and Sam at Minas Morgul or Legolas and Tauriel at Gundabad? -We had a sweeping shot of ranks of spear-bearing Uruk Hai before the walls, who part to allow a mounted leader to advance menacingly through their ranks. Now we have a sweeping shot of spear-baring ELVES before the walls, who part to allow a mounted elf-king to advance menacingly through their ranks. In both cases, we have shots up at the outnumbered defenders peering down from their hastily rebuilt fortress. In both cases, a prematurely fired arrow opens the hostilities. -A berserker carrying a bomb ran urgently towards the culvert, leaping headfirst to bring down the wall. Now we have a troll with a ram on his head, who runs urgently and leaps headfirst to bring down a wall. The Uruk Hai/orcs following stream together through the narrow hole, then fan out.-Gandalf rides (right to left) up the steep, winding streets of both Minas Tirith and Dale to warn and rally the citizens.-Characters say "Send forth the legions", "Kill them all," "The Age of the Orc has begun". In both trilogies.-Before, Legolas slid on a shield (left to right) down a staircase to save Gimli, using the shield to impale an Uruk. Now, Bard rides a wagon (left to right) down a hill to save his children, using the cart to bowl over a troll. -When All is Lost at Helm's Deep, a heroic younger character confronts the aging king, urging him to fight rather than hiding. The king agrees, and the small band charges out in one final desperate effort while a dwarf blows an impractically large horn. The burly character shouts "To the King!" The attacking Uruks are taken aback by the blinding sun and bowled aside. When All is Lost at Erebor, a heroic younger character confronts the aging king, urging him to fight rather than hiding. The king agrees, and the small band charges out in one final desperate effort while a dwarf blows an impractically large horn. The burly character shouts "To the King!" The attacking trolls are taken aback by... well, nothing, apparently... and bowled aside. Yeah, this one is EXACTLY the same, without even an effort to hide it. -In ROTK, Legolas makes his way to the head of a Mumak and brings it down by piercing its brain from above, causing it to crash into another Mumak, resulting in an earth-shaking collapse. In BOFA, Legolas makes his way to the head of a troll (which seems to have morning-stars for feet) and brings it down by piercing its brain from above, causing it to crash into a town, resulting in an earth-shaking collapse. -In a one-on-one showdown outside Minas Tirith, Eowyn faces the Witch-King, who is armed with a sword and an improbable mace. In a one-on-one showdown above Dale, Thorin faces Azog, who is armed with a sword-arm and an improbable mace.I could cite more examples, but I'm bumping up against the word limit. The acting in The Hobbit is generally solid -- Martin Freeman in particular is excellent. But Peter Jackson either ran out of ideas or didn't bother trying. This film is a bloated, self-plagiarizing mess, and the only worthwhile moments are those pulled unaltered from the book.
__label__2 * This Review contains a few spoilers*The Battle of Five Armies... The last part of a poor trilogy, it made me exited and gave me hope, because maybe it could be like the Return of The king... but no.This movie was an embarrassment for Peter Jackson, the man who just got himself a star on the street of Hollywood. This man turns out to be just like all the other Hollywood directors, a money wolf. This trilogy was made for nothing more than money, why 3 parts, why?! And half of the book isn't even concluded in the movies.A 260 page book spread in 9 hours in movie could be something awesome, but it didn't. it became horrible. Something that annoyed me : Added characters, no character development, no emotional moments, to many ''you got to be kidding me'' moments, no Dwarfs, Elve or men die in the battle. Where is there brutality of the LOTR? Where in the most epic battles of movie history everything took place : grief, death, epicness, sadness, moments of smiling while having a hard time trying not to let go of some tears, and above all, the fact that you don't know how many of the good people will survive. Well in TBOFA nobody died, expect orcs (CGI monsters). And than some other things that made no sense, and are left out. What happens with the Arkenstone, who becomes king under the mountain, where does Tauriel go, what happens to the dwarve, what happens to the lake people, and what about the gems of the Elves?! Isn't that what this movie was all about?? How hard was it to include 15 minutes more and tell this. And why did Peter Jackson change the story about the death of Fili and Kili? Where was the love of brother ship? that's what I liked about the book, it was about love for your brothers, not about the love of a stupid made up elve girl. Oh and above all, Middle- Earth looked life an awful ugly world, while it's supposed to be an amazing wonderful world. Peter Jackson messed up big timeI think this is enough for you guys to get why this movie was horrible compared to what it could've became, a story rank worthy to the LOTR movies.2/10, 1 star because it was Middle-Earth, and 1 star because Bilbo played an amazing role (oh yeah speaking of Bilbo, he looked like a side character, isn't he the main character?)
__label__2 It's one of those films that was annoying me as I watched it but actually making me cringe the more i think about it. A few points - ignoring any historical inaccuracies (of which there are plenty).1) There appeared to be only one character (Godfrey) who could speak English intelligibly, accents of Robin Hood and Little John were quite laughable (Crowe darted between North Yorkshire, Liverpool and Ireland) and I have no idea which part of the world Little John was supposed to come from. 2) Maid Marion – a very hammy performance and legend does not ever mention her super-human strength; have you ever tried to bend a modern longbow replica? Very hard even for a large bloke and they have about half the draw weight of the real thing, and I had no idea that Wendy and the lost boys were involved in the legend of Robin Hood. 3) The final battle scene was taken more or less directly from Saving Private Ryan and included replica landing craft, one of the daftest scenes in cinema for quite some time. 4) There is so much information about concerning archer's other weapons of that era there was no need to invent a long sledge hammer 5) Why call the film Robin Hood? Only the last few seconds are to do with 'Robin of the Hood' so this should have been clearly labelled as a prequel. 6) Could they not have found a beach with real cliffs?All that money wasted – they could have made a decent film
__label__2 The Hobbit: The Desolation of Smaug is more of a bad Steven Seagal clone than an adaptation of well-read literature. The first film in the new trilogy, An Unexpected Journey, was very good, with one problem I'll mention later. If the worst decision Director Peter Jackson made was to include Orlando Bloom and Evangeline Lilly, which seems to be the case for the professional praise-givers, this film would be fantastic. However, it just so happens that there's this little thing Jackson and his fellow writers forgot to do: make sure the movie resembles the book.I'm sure most people who saw the first movie remember the leading villain Azog. Well, in case you haven't read the book, page 251 of my 1997 Houghton Mifflin copy states "Bolg of the North is coming, O Dain! whose father you slew in Moria." In the section on Durin's Folk in Appendix A of the Lord of the Rings, it is stated that Dain Ironfoot, who is supposed to appear in the next film, slew Azog in the big Dwarf vs. Goblin battle we see as a flashback in film one. This means that the entire Azog subplot is just one big fan-fiction. It is one thing to include the son of the Elven-King (Legolas) even though he is not mentioned in the book, after all, is it so inconceivable that Legolas would be near his father? It is an entirely different matter when a character is included even though he has been dead for over 100 years!Continuing with our game of "What is timeline consistency?", we come across Gandalf. Gandalf ends movie 2 in a cage at Dol Guldur. Beyond the fact that there is no rationale for such a decision, we know from Appendix B that Gandalf reports the existence of Sauron to the White Council and then takes part in the attack on Dol Guldur. After that battle, he proceeds to save Bilbo's life right before the Battle of Five Armies. Based on this film's timeline and what part of the original timeline still remains, Gandalf has but a handful of days to accomplish all that I have listed.My copy of The Hobbit is 271 pages long. The US edition of Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone is 310 pages. Why in the name of Eru do you need three movies for this story? I understand and would have gladly stood behind two films, therefore allowing for extended action sequences and a limited reduction in content. Three films should be more than enough to cover the entire book but apparently not for Peter Jackson. Beorn is trimmed down to the importance of Celeborn, then we watch a ridiculously long giant spider sequence, then the dwarfs are captured for maybe three hours Middle-Earth time, then we watch an overly long fan-fiction chapter about Azog's friends being killed by our two elf heroes. Note that Bolg is able to attack the dwarfs because Jackson changed the escape from Mirkwood scene in order to allow for more combat. After our craziest bloodbath yet, we have an overly long scene introducing another Jackson creation: Bard, the Barge-Sailer who apparently got mixed up with Bard, the Captain of the Guard. You see, the former makes a whole bunch of claims that are actually true about the latter. Why do we need to mess up the Lake-Town sequence? If you guessed "To set up another impossible bloodbath", give yourself a vacation to a combat zone. This round of combat is only after we leave four dwarfs behind because one of them got the Witch-King's knife disease that Frodo got in Fellowship but this time it came from an arrow fired by Bolg who has absolutely nothing better to do since Azog took all his screen time. Of course, Kili is saved by Tauriel, Captain of the Guard of the Woodland Realm who somehow has the same healing capability as Lord Elrond Half-Elven, wielder of one of the three Elven Rings of Power and a direct descendant of the Kings of the Noldor. It is rather fortunate Tauriel is there, because otherwise, Kili would have to wait for the next movie to have his deathbed dialogue, provided Jackson even sends Fili and Kili to Erebor where they're supposed to be. I'm all for the suspension of disbelief, but this doesn't even make sense in the fantasy universe.And don't forget the dragon. In Lake-Town, the viewer is reminded multiple times that Smaug can only be killed by a special ballista-bolt, strangely called an arrow, and only in one tiny spot on his stomach. In the mountain, Bilbo points it out again. But Peter Jackson apparently pays no heed to the script with his own name on it and gives the viewer a 30 minute "Let's Kill the Dragon Sequence". Take a guess who doesn't die in this sequence. If you said Smaug, the Fire- Breathing Dragon, you are more qualified to direct this movie than Peter Jackson. I loved the Rings film trilogy and, with the exception of Azog, the first Hobbit film. This film though, has almost no plot development, almost no consistency with the timeline given by Tolkien, almost no attention paid to its own script, and entirely too much combat. I remember Jackson being criticised for the warg battle in Towers but that did not require any plot change except for the location of the death of Hama (a very minor change) and the whole Aragorn-cliff- dream-thing which serves to heighten the tension before a battle that is done far better in the film. The warg battle helped to make a good fantasy film. This film seems like it is trying to see how many people can be killed before it gets an R rating from the MPAA. Deviations from the book are good if it enables better cinema but not when it allows for "Let's Kill Everything We See: The Movie".
__label__2 Admittedly, I am biased from having read the wonderful book, but it looks like Peter Jackson has been writing his own story. He keeps making up pointless crap as an excuse to add more CGI and more fighting scenes. If you are looking for mindless fighting, zero dialogue, an overuse of CGI that would leave James Cameron shaking his head in disbelief, then sure, this movie is probably for you! However, if you are looking for the same emotion and magic that the book brings out in you, prepare to be disappointed, over and over again.Beorn is in the movie for about a minute and has the eloquence of a donkey with autism. Mirkwood before the elves appear is barely five minutes long. Which means the spiders disappear before they even got the chance to appear, and there is no Bombur falling in the water, and nothing to lure them off the path, they just get lost because they are extremely dumb dwarfs. Orcs are chasing them wherever they go, and the barrel- ride out of Mirkwood is a 20-minute long scene where nothing really happens, except a lot of orcs die, and Kili gets shot with a poisonous arrow(?). Then they bribe Bard into smuggling them past the guards into Lake-town. Apparently Bards ancestor shot off a piece of dragon scale under his left wing, so Bard already knows of the Dragon's weakness. No thrush has to tell him anything... All the dwarfs race into Smaug's lair and go on a rat-race in which Smaug is too brainless to actually kill anyone, and when he has an absolutely obvious shot at it, he suddenly has a change of heart and decides to let them live. Also, four of the dwarfs are still in Lake-town tending to the poisoned Kili and fighting orcs with the elves. Make sense? Not really, no. The book has been torched, and Peter Jackson has rewritten it the way it was (probably) intended; as a fighter-book with cool environments, cool people who say cool things, cool dwarven caves and cool statues. The things I have pointen out are only a few of the many changes and disappointments from the movie. Who needs a good story with all this CGI?The acting is dreadful, the dialogue is dreadful, the CGI is dreadfully overused, the plot is dreadful (it's not the same as the book, believe me.) But the dragon was pretty cool. So therefore: 2/10.
__label__2 Everything that i loved about the original trilogy is gone. How can one make such a bad movie... i don't even know what to say but everything is wrong with this movie, visual effects, direction and story. If you have read the book you will be disappointed. The movie has loss of balance, too much action and no character development. Legolas wasn't even in the book neither was Tauriel which Peter Jackson came up with. The dragon was cool though but that is all i can say i liked about the movie. Two hobbit movies would have been enough to tell the story from the book, i mean just look at the harry potter movies compared to the books, they are just brilliant. The movie is brainless and rushed which is a shame as i've been so excited for the "The Hobbit Movies". I really hope the last one is made with care because it really deserves it.
__label__2 This movie really blew it for me. Here is why, in increasing order of distastefulness.1. Not taking the time to properly tell the many little stories in the book. This is too bad, because they were good stories. Beorn, Mirkwood, Elf fires, Bilbo and the spiders, Bilbo and the dragon, etc. are all abbreviated or simply left out.2. Developing sub plots which were only alluded to in the book. These added depth to the world around the story, but fully played out they are irrelevant and obsessed with the LOTR plot. Radagast, the Necromancer, etc. are distractions, and doubly so with their relentless focus on premonition of events from the next 3 books. This also assumes that the director has more interesting stories to tell than the author did. He does not.3. Adding characters and plots that were never in the book. The Pale Orc, Legolas, Tauriel, dwarf/elf romance, etc. These force the plot to change, distract from the story, and are weak compared to the original. Again the director demonstrates that the author was a better storyteller than he is. Plus, this allows for cringe-worthy scenes such as the one where the hottie-kungfu-elf-she-warrior saved her love interest dwarf from a morgul arrowhead with magic spells and herbs just in time to kill a bunch of orcs who ninja-style invaded lake town. 4. Doing another Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom style roller coaster ride. This was cute in the 80s, but is simply insulting at this point in time, and particularly in this story. Does one of the great stories of the 20th century really need a roller coaster ride to make it interesting? The moment I saw the dwarfs sliding down to waiting coal cars, I realized that I'd had enough. This was where I walked out shaking my head.I'm sad about this movie because I loves these stories, and I doubt they'll ever be told in film again. This was almost as bad as the John Carter movie!
__label__2 After a disappointing AUJ I really wanted to like this film. Unfortunately I've now lost complete faith in PJ's magic. There are so many flaws in this film I don't even know where to start. From characters that are invincible (fighting barehanded giant spiders or Orcs !) which removes all tension from the film to utterly incomprehensible and unconvincing scenes (creation of giant dwarf gold statue in 5 minutes while a fire breathing dragon is on a rampage) this movie is just awful. Dialogues seem to be written by a 10 year old and the behavior of the protagonist contradicts what is expected from them (Why does the king of dwarfs threatens Bilbo despite their bond in AUJ? Why do the dwarfs leave one of theirs sleeping in the village? Why do the dwarfs leave so quickly the mountain once they realize that they can't find the keyhole?). The village scenes add no value to the story (fillers) and the love triangle is forced and unconvincing. Worst, Smaug which seemed to be an eloquent and highly intelligent character in the first five minutes of dialog with Bilbo is then transformed into a stupid creature who can't find slow-paced and pudgy dwarfs in his lair. What a waste of material - Smaug could have been one of the best villains coming out of Hollywood. Now it's just a dumb dragon which likes to talk like a posh Englishman. The 3D doesn't add any value to the film (contrary to Gravity) and the CGI was poor (why make a horse in CGI?). LOTR was more convincing. In the end neither my wife or I cared for any of the characters (existing or new). This film was an insult to our intelligence. We deserved much better.I've put 2 stars. One for the first five minutes of dialog with Smaug (only real moment of the film with some tension) and one for the fine acting of Gandalf and Bilbo as usual.
__label__2 The opening scene was the very first clue that this film was going to be the barrage of formula drudgery that it ultimately turned out to be. Weitz began by unveiling all the information which the reader isn't even aware of by the end of the first novel in a horrific attempt to follow the footsteps of The Lord of the Rings with an opening prelude. Much of the intrigue of Pullman's storytelling is derived from the careful progression of revealed information, letting the reader know only as much as it needs to at any moment, and no more. The mystery is not only lost, it is purposely banished by the blundering slate of exposition which begins with the prologue and carrys on through the film's duration. Every bit of exposition has the feel of a technical bother that must be gotten out of the way so that the action scenes can make some kind of sense. But the real kicker is the obviousness. The obviousness ranging from New Line's less than subtle attempt to repeat a miracle (LOTR), to the individual lines in the film ("Why am I here? What do they want? What is she going to do with me?"), and everything in between. Show, don't tell, is the first rule of third grade story writing, a class these film makers clearly missed. The film makers (Chris Weitz and everyone above him) have absolutely no respect for their audience. Somehow they expect people to go to a film like TGC for the action sequences and great CG. They expect people can't make inferences and connect the dots unless it is entirely spelled out for them. And the really amazing thing, is that in spite of spilling every possible secret of the narrative before the audience could possibly start to wonder about it, the tangle of facts are hugely more confusing than the novel. This is a fumble truly. It was too big of a project for Weitz and there was way too much (it would seem) direction from above the director making this superb story of amazingly real characters in an amazing, whimsical world nothing more than a long string of pretty CG which amounts to a fantastically muddled flop. I really have to say that the first mistake made was the same one made by Walden Media with the Chronicles on Narnia: making a children's film out of something that wasn't child-material. His Dark Materials are not for children, Narnia wasn't either. They fit into a genre of literature clearly not understood by Newline, Walden, and film studios like them: Novels. Just because the main characters are children people readily assume they are children's stories, but Pullman's work, more so even than Narnia, is written with an intelligent, imaginative, but somewhat cynical audience in mind. Sure their isn't graphic sex and foul swearing, but the themes addressed in his books are not of a pre-teen nature in the least. The main character in the Sixth Sense is a pre-teen, but no one would assume the bulk of the audience would be ten year olds. Somehow in the fantasy realm, studios have seen giant dollar signs over the heads of young children and grasped for material with a previously established audience that appeals to this demographic. What they forgot about Lord of the Rings is that it was directed by a genius, a genius who cared about both the source material and making as good a film as possible, someone who actually understood the language of film, something that cannot be said for Weitz or anyone above him responsible for this film. Jackson was a dark film maker, his previous films Brain Dead, Heavenly Creatures, and The Frighteners preparing him to deal very appropriately with the material of the Lord of the Rings. Material which, while far denser than Narnia or Compass material, was no more deserving of a serious handling and of caring, talented hands.The question I have to ask is do the people responsible realize what they have done wrong, and if they do, do they care? My guess is they will begin to care when TGC loses money and perhaps they will begin to understand that audiences don't want a bunch of CG action sequences or pretty costumes. Audiences, for every genre and category, want a good story well told with characters that they care about and mystery they can feel. Maybe the next time they spend 180 million dollars they will ponder this, and maybe then we will see something worthwhile. Until then, we can expect nothing more than a steady stream of Narnia-Compass-Eregon-Etc. drivle from the studio machine.
__label__2 When I saw the previews of the movie I thought the movie was going to be absolutely spectacular. I loved Lord of the Rings and I thought Jackson would do a good job with this one too. Boy, was I wrong. This movie is so overdone and stupid it is unbelievable. The beginning of the movie is VERY drawn out and includes characters that have no point in the film. Not only that, you get backstory on these characters. Usually when you build characters up, they have a purpose in the story. Sometimes Mr. Jackson, we want to know what happens to characters if you build them up. Then once they get on the island it is pure chaos. How anyone could plausibly survive that island is beyond me. The natives are gonna get ya. If the natives don't get ya, Kong's gonna get ya. If Kong doesn't get ya, the dinosaurs will get ya. If the dinosaurs don't get ya, the bugs are gonna get ya. If the bugs don't get ya, the bats are gonna get ya (if they don't decide to attack Kong first). My favorite scene in the movie is when Adrian Brody fights all of the above and then goes after Kong with no weapon. Hmmmmm...that's a good decision. I just nearly lost my life to natives, dinosaurs, and giant bugs, but I don't need a weapon for a giant angry gorilla. Right. At this point in the movie I was waiving a white flag in the theater. "You got me Mr. Jackson. I give up! You can have my ten dollars! Just no more picture! No more picture! (sobbing). I haven't even mentioned the ridiculous love story between Naomi Watts and Kong. But if you enjoyed all that over-hyped overdone madness that you've seen up to that point, I'm sure you would enjoy that too. I recommend this movie to people that don't like plot or any sense of reality or reason in their films. The special effects are good, but what a waste! Peter Jackson, I beg you, PLEASE DO NOT REMAKE ANY MORE FILMS! In any case, I cant wait for the unrated version to come out on DVD.
__label__2 To save your time: BORING BORING THE KING OF BORING! Now for the rant: BORING...except when those neat-o CGI-wrought effects sequences happened. But though they looked cool, they looked completely fake, which detracts.Anyway, this was BY FAR the biggest disappointment of the year for me, and I SAW The Island. But this time I was expecting something that wasn't so God-forsaken and overly long, and it's purely the acclaimed PeterJ to blame, and he may yet take Oscars(TM) for this boring dullfest.I mean it. I have never checked my watch or rolled my eyes as much as I did for this 3 hour of film. Part of this is due to the hype. Shows you how well the Hollywood machine is doing. (Just fine.) I typically rate films as they deserve, but if they have the hype and blind-sided enthusiasm of instant or undeserved glorification (like too many) I will notch it down a few points, typically two. This deserves three for it's indulgence such as: 1) trying to be novelistic, with I'm-film-but-I'm-literature references to Conrad's "Heart of Darkness", and such time-slurping expository stuff (let's skate over that) that drag the hour more so than progress story 2) even more lame analogies and references, like the writer-in-the-cage and Fay-Wray-on-another-film kinda malarkey, 3) The visionary fat-head genius-conniver-ultimately humbled Lord-of-the-Moov Director, played by Jack B for Peter J's carefully conducted, bogus humility. 4) Forget about continuity, skate to dawn... etc) There's plenty more. I rolled my eyes. Checked the the time. More than any other film. Even the worst ones.Wondered when it would end. kept wondering.Peter J, take a lesson from Seuss: The story need not be longer than it is to be a good story. (Or, if I were a Hollywood suck-up, "Can't wait to read your approved draft of the Lorax, Petey!!!")Kong did not show up until the film was half over. A three hour film. I'm just still glad it's over.It gets a two because it must be pulled down from that pedestal, like all new over-hyped films are. But on a good day, I'd give it a five, unless it were edited for... time. Then it might not suck for two more hours.Thus, I would recommend kind IMDb viewers to just rent the DVD. The CGI stuff is the only thing that's worth it, every other theme ("Beautiful" "artistic endeavor" "how to make a good 100 minutes be a boring 180") must be saved for hardcore blindsided film dorks, and their girlfriends who will fall asleep to this indulgent, time-consuming, overwrought boring remake.
__label__2 I went to see this film because I wanted to go and see an amazing film. It is and for all the wrong reasons in my opinion. You can argue about the acting if you want - I thought it rather ordinary, but given that the actors had a limp script and a blank CGI background, I thought they did as well as they could.The script was notably lame - poorly written and with little to work with as it suffered from the same problem that everything else in the film suffered from: it was a promotional video for a computer game. This is the first time I have seen a film that was driven by the need to sell a computer game - which explains why the editor was told to go and have a long coffee while the editing was *not* carried out. It would have been a passable one and a half hour film - possibly even exciting. At 2 hours 45 or thereabouts, it was agonising.Each scene as it happened looked just like the computer game will (or already does?). Five minutes of running in a ravine with dinosaur legs around you. Five minutes of Kong falling down a ravine and having to climb up the hanging twines. Five more minutes of this or that - each scene lengthened to show you how cool the graphics are. Moving camera shots that had no reason other than to look really cool and make the viewer feel slightly sick. Where it was effective admittedly was the shots that induced vertigo - amazing stuff. Where the camera raced around for no reason simply induced my dinner to attempt reentry.I have no problem with computer games - they are amazing, wonderful exciting etc etc. I can also see the logic in creating games from movies - and that's my point. Games FROM movies - this was a movie from a game.Somewhere along the way, telling the story got lost. But then again, with our rapidly decreasing attention spans - who has the time or inclination to watch a story unfold. Far better to have five minute sections of a video game that you can pause at each level...What a miserable shame.
__label__2 Captain America is only a stupid cowboy in this movie. Why does he not sign the regulation papers? He isn't a god like Thor or Superman. Who is Captain America to be above the Law? Superman or a American cowboy? Why did he not tell Iron Man what his best friend have done with H.Stark and his mother? Does he know how to talk with his friends like Tony? I think not. He only knows how to fight... like a perfect soldier...And what about the conflict? And the consequences? Will we see them? Or Captain is already a friend for Tony? He has given a cheap cellphone to Tony... so... the conflict doesn't matter...Only the action scenes are good...
__label__2 This is my first ever review on IMDb and after watching this movie a few hours ago I was compelled to register on IMDb so I could play the Battleship guessing game with you (similar to the original Battleship, only that it's not).Q1: How does a radio telescopes work? Do they A - Detect and collect data on radio sources B - Shoot some type of visible light laser beam to another solar system in the hope to communicate with aliens?Answer: B - It's hard for someone to imagine how a signal is sent. Q2: What would be the best way for an alien ship to travel once on earth? A - Fly B - Hop on the water (in one direction) like a cross between a water strider and a frogAnswer: B - Also staying true to their weapons system which only work line of sight.Q3: Once the alien destruction robots are launched to attack and weaken the human defense, do they A - Destroy 20 unarmed helicopters B - Ruin a field where kids are playing baseball C - Destroy the only remaining docked Battleship equipped with Harpoon and Tomahawk missiles D - Attack some concrete pillars holding up a section of a freewayAnswer: A,B,D - Who would ever think that the USS Missouri had a better chance of attacking the aliens as opposed to a freeway.Q4: Your a bad-ass alien who traveled ten's of light years to take over another planet, what do you bring as a personal weapon? A - A ray guy than can evaporate anything in sight B - Any other type of projectile weapon C - A knife that looks like a screwdriverAnswer: C - The only weakness being that it takes this weapon 20 seconds to warm up, giving a double leg amputee enough time to walk up to the armored alien kick-box it in the head and take off it's helmet.Q5: The humans have fired a tomahawk missile at your alien ship. What do you do? A - Try to shoot it down with your own weapons B - Try to maneuver your ship out of the way C - Have your alien ship hop directly into the missileAnswer: C - Oh yes that's right the alien ship is only equipped with grenades and it can only move in the direction it is facing. Q6: Your building an alien war ship that will be used to take over a planet. What material do you use to protect the bridge? A - A type of super strong metal B - GlassAnswer: B - Taking over a planet is not so easy when a few sniper rifle rounds breaches the hull on the bridge and kills the alien commander. If you got 0% then watch the trailer and save yourself from having your intelligence insulted.If you got above 1% then steal a chicken burrito, become captain of the navy in a few years and save the planet from an alien invasion by taking commands from an officer 20 ranks below you.
__label__2 Sitting in the theatre last night, a line from an old Tool song was  rattling around in my brain. "One great big, festering, neon  distraction" was used by the band to describe the state of California,  but the description couldn't be more apt for Peter Berg's BATTLESHIP. A  deafening, blue and orange military recruitment tool, the film can't  even sustain its laughably simple premise, and attempts to promote a  message so unappealing to its target audience I was left questioning  why it even exists.  Story is the least important element here, so lets just say that in  between all the sweeping helicopter shots and blinding lens flare, an  international Naval war games exercise is interrupted by alien  invaders, and it's up to reckless officer Alex Hopper (Taylor Kitsch)  to save the day. Kitsch delivers solid character work early on, but  soon gets lost in the cacophony of bangs and seizure-inducing editing  which leaves little room for the human story. Inexplicably added to the  mix are pop star Rihanna, seemingly here for no other reason than,  well, she's Rihanna, and Liam Neeson collecting his paycheck for around  10 minutes of screen time. But, as I said, we're not here for the  story, rather the spectacular action and special effects right? The bad  news is that when the aliens finally show up, BATTLESHIP's pace  strangely slows to a crawl (no doubt due to the limited options offered  by the source material), and all potential excitement and interest  evaporates. Director Berg forces the idea of teamwork down the  audience's throats (Japan and the US fighting together in Hawaii?  Wonders never cease), and doesn't even try to disguise his recruitment  agenda. Indeed, the film is little more than a hyperkinetic music video  (oh, that's why Rihanna is here) designed to lure impressionable youth  into signing up so they too can fight the 'alien invaders'.  Herein lies the problem however: young people today almost definitely  don't play Battleship. Basing a tentpole film on a board game seemed  like a daft idea from the outset, but recent cinema history has seen a  theme park ride turned into a critically and financially successful  franchise, so precedent is there in a way. Unfortunately for Universal,  even those of us who grew up in a pre-internet/Xbox Live world remember  Battleship as a desperately boring endeavour, so how can it be expected  to compete in today's short attention-span culture? The strange  metaphor that Berg attempts to craft in the film's third act,  suggesting that we need to remember and re-appraise the past, just  won't fly with 21st century teens bred in our disposable, constantly  updating world of technological wonder. BATTLESHIP's strange  juxtaposition of bombastic special effects framing ancient board game  mechanics simply doesn't sit right, and it's hard to imagine the teen  audience, so crucial for success at the summer box-office, tearing  themselves away from the latest CALL OF DUTY to embrace the turn-based  'excitement' of this ridiculous film. No amount of explosions can  salvage a limp and underwritten movie, and BATTLESHIP, not entirely  unexpectedly, is torpedoed by its own outdated inspiration.
__label__2 ... and it's dinosaurs. Absolutely everything else is a big pile of crap (might be dinosaurs'). So full of clichés, you exactly know, who is going to die or who will live just a few minutes after knowing the character. So many absurd decisions, so many stupid but predictable actions. So much staring on danger in spite of running out. So many substantive errors for anyone who has primary science knowledge. And last but not least running many hours in the jungle on heels without absolutely any problems. Unfortunately dinosaurs haven't eaten everyone so it's going to be another idiotic movie.
__label__2 My first review on IMDb, couldn't resist offering some balance to the obvious early march of fanboy reviews! Always been abit of a Bond fan and I was looking forward to being taken away to some exotic locations, to escape for a few hours, and some edge of seat action but these things were missing from Skyfall.Production standards have slipped terribly on Skyfall with stuntmen clearly visible (motorbike chase)and some of the worst sets I have ever seen. The Skyfall Lodge (Bond's family home) is especially appalling and some people even laughed in the cinema when they pulled up in the old Aston.The Q character doesn't work at all, not convincing in any way with the fake glasses and daft hair...EON please rethink this for the next movie and also forget the Moneypenny actress because she cannot act, least not in this character anyway.Some of the SFX were good but the opening chase scene was way to long and instead of building suspense most people just got bored.The french actress Berenice was superb as was Rory Kinnear, though for me Craig struggled to capture my attention like he did in Casino Royale.Bardem was underused or poorly directed and never intimidating as a true 'baddie' should be, and why oh why did they dye his hair? it was so so unconvincing.I have yet to meet anybody who thinks this is a great movie let alone 'the best Bond ever!' I am staggered that some people like this Bond but I guess we are all different! I wonder how these figures are calculated as most of the last few thousand votes have been poor but I am new to IMDb (great site by the way)so maybe it takes awhile for the early enthusiast votes to be corrected by more 'normal' viewings?! And I suppose there will always be the fan element hell bent on 'talking a movie up' whereas someone who has watched a film they dislike generally will just want to forget about it!
__label__2 I loved "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland" and remember it as an amazing and timeless adventure indeed. Alice wanders around in a world so enigmatic and unstable that you never know what will happen next, and what twist will put Alice in just new trouble, often unintentionally and tragically made worse by her own doing. Now this is all exactly what this movie does not have. After Alice arrives in the new 'underland', you will soon be in on the entire story: It is two sides, good against evil, and Alice is to slay a monster. Not a single second is unexpected. Nor are there any twists. (But even the first minutes are astonishingly wanting any concept: Scenes without any real characters rush by, there is no focus of attention in the opening.) But most of all, my understanding of then brand "Alice" is that she originally wanders around a dream land that confronts her with her own self, her anxieties, her shadowy anticipation that things will not be all nice and easy, all taking shape in landscapes, characters and events painted in dream-language. Of this essence, it should be no problem to create a movie that really leaves an impression - let alone, if Tim Burton is in the team. But there is nothing, nothing of this concept in this movie. Instead of joining a charismatic and mature character on the journey through her own dismal, natural instabilities that every one carries inside, the story here is already written, and Alice is only to follow marked footprints. For the only reason that... she is the one foretold to do it. There is merely the most silly 'hollywood-intellectualism', where 'good against evil' must be taken as, like, certainly some sort of metaphor representing all our everyday struggles, and it is so much about decision making and all... I'm devastated. Eventually, Tim Burton has added his potential for design to a movie completely without content. The only metaphor I see is Lewis Carroll appearing at the end in the figure of the Jabberwokie, and Alice, slaying him. Carroll is dead, long live 'Alice does Hollywood'.
__label__2 When I first heard that Tim Burton was making Alice in Wonderland, and when, later yet, I saw the stills and first promotional shots, I could not wait to see it. I decided to forget all about how disappointing Burton's latest movies were, and thought to myself, we'll probably all fall in love with him again.So when the first reviews turned out to be less than favourable, I was surprised. When some of then were outright terrible, I started suspecting that maybe my expectations had been too high. But nothing, NOTHING prepared me for yesterday's bitter disappointment.First, the positive. Nice costumes, and I mean REALLY, seriously nice costumes. Dresses to die for, and hats to wear in a dream. And the Cheshire cat who is so fluffy that you are seriously tempted to reach out and ruffle his tummy. And the Red Queen, who is the only believable character with acting worth the mention. And... oh wait, the list ends here.If Burton had spent as much time writing the story, developing the characters and working on the dialogue, as he had on making sure that the dresses were spectacular, this movie might have been quite alright. But instead, he opted to provide a story so predictable and unimaginative, you have to wonder why it was put to screen at all. And he seemed to have thought that, if the story (or lack of it, to be honest) was not dreadfully bad enough, this could be fixed by carefully adding a cliché to almost every line in the dialogue, and by making sure that there was not a single funny (like laugh-out-loud funny, not a half-smile-OK funny) moment in the whole movie.Worst of all, he mercilessly murdered the essence and soul of the characters. Alice is lifeless, boring and mechanical. The Hatter has a few brilliant moments and he was graciously allowed a few acceptable lines by Burton, but mostly it is all been-there-done-that another over-the-top-facial-paint-role for Depp. The movie leaves one thankful for the Red Queen – her character would not impress you in any better movie, where she would simply be a decently amusing villain, but here it's only her presence that can lighten up the screen somewhat. Hathaway's beauty is worth admiring, but the White Queen would be better left in a poster, as the moment she starts speaking or moving, it is so unnatural, word "cringy" does not do it justice. The others are not even worth the mention, with the exception of the Caterpillar, where Rickman's charisma cannot be so subdued that it would not shine through.At many points in this movie I tried to tell myself – this is a movie for children, what do you expect. Well, much more. There are many wonderful children's movies that are delightful to watch for audiences of all ages. This leaves you a feeling you just spent 2 hours watching the Mardi Gras carnival at 4 am, where beautiful clad dancers barely even move anymore, their steps mechanical and their eyes glazed over, and the audience too drunk to care.I went with a friend who said she loved it, as it looked nice. If this is all you are looking for, and if you watch it while playing your favourite album on your MP3 player so as to limit your experience to moving images, you might just find it enjoyable enough.
__label__2 This should not have been titled x-men!!! Characters are all wrong, background is all wrong, magneto ask like an evil stupid tyrant instead of the proud genius trying to gain equality for mutants.The phoenix is supposed to be an alien possessing jean Grey's body, the juggernaut is not meant to be a mutant and is meant to be Xavier's brother, ah so many character problems.It played out like a crappy Disney teen movie, every thing was wrong, and why does magneto need to move the bridge??? its seemed a little to dramatic, he could have just ripped up some metal and flown them there.Part two was sooo much better
__label__2 I myself am i bit of an X-men fan, though not a hardcore one. Being as such i don't know ever X-men and their names and powers etc. Yet, even still this movie was a GIGANTIC let down, so i can only pretend to feel what the die-hard X-men fan boys must've gone through when they witnessed this catastrophe to the films.There were far too many problems with this movie to mention them all here, so ill just go over a few basics. First off, the biggest mistake was casting a new director. Especially one that, if you actually watched the movie you could tell, has no respect for the previous two movies or the XMen universe itself. Why the idiotic producers didn't wait for the original director to finish Superman i don't know. Although that Ratner (or whatever his name is) did have a nice touch in the since of bringing in some nice cameos and new characters, he failed miserably doing them justice. And to make matters even worse, those characters that he didn't want to use he just KILLED off! Cyclopes gets offed by Pheonix within the first 15 minutes of the film, and Prof. X doesn't exactly share too much of a better fate then ol' Scott. As well, guys like Angel and Pheonix herself (to whom one of the MANY fragmented story lines revolves around) are hardly brought to justice. The only thing Angle does is fly out of a window and catch his pops from falling to his death, and Pheonix literally stands around as a big war is going on for 10 minutes, THEN decides to out of no where **** everything up just for the sake of being able to put in 'pretty visuals' in the movie. AS well, when making a movie, don't use multiple story lines and hope to pull it off within an hour n a half, its not gonna happen. You never even really find out any information about the 'Cure' or Pheonix and why she is like she is, or even receive the names of HALF of the characters in the film. It's almost as if this Ratner guy decided to take the gem that is the X-Men movies and crumble it into a lil ball and turn it into a crappy nonstop action movie. It's almost as if its the Action version of a Porn, where there is no story, its all about the action. For example, what in the world happened to Nightcrawler and Gambit? Weren't they both supposed to be in this film? How come it never even hints to us as to why Nightcrawler suddenly decided to resign from the fight and disappear from the face of the world? And i like how it starts off with the future of Sentinels killing off all mutants in the Danger Room, but oh.. never tells you why or whats going on, or even what either of them are. As well, the music just SUCKED HORRIBLY. I'm almost considering that even all the Star Wars Pre-Trilogy were better films then this, and thats saying something-not including the first one, that wasn't too bad-(but Ep. 2 was by far a mockery and the worst scifi movie ever made). A comic-book movie doesn't have to be all action to be a good comic-book movie, take V for Vendetta for example, there's only maybe 4 or 5 action scenes in it and that movie kiss ass, V is by far the coolest hero ever. And how does a movie with so little action manage to be such a great movie? Uhmmm, ah yes, BECAUSE IT'S STORY IS EXCELLENT. No story and character development, no need to even bother with it. I wouldn't even recommend this for buying on DVD after it goes below the 10 bucks mark. It's a rent at best. If they do decide to make a 4th installment, make it right, and hopefully get XMEN outta the whole that the Batman n Robin and Tomb Raider equaled film X3 has put it into.
__label__2 Disappointment.Let me start by saying "Monsters Inc." was one of my favourite movies when I was younger and still stands in my top three Pixar films with "The Incredibles" and "A Bug's Life" ('COUGH' Seven Samurai 'COUGH'). So I went into this film with high expectations. I don't know why. I should'v known what to expect from a university based prequel.Where "Monsters Inc." succeeded was where most Pixar films succeed, it's originality. "Monsters Inc." is one of the most original ideas ever conceived, a story centerd around monsters in an alternate monster universe that travel through closet door portals to the human world to scare children to generate energy for their world. It doesn't get much more original then that. And the originality stopped dead there, because the last thing this prequel has is originality.For starters there were barely any new characters... I should rephrase, no new characters worth remembering or caring about. The only main new characters added were complete stereotypical university centred characters, the geeks and the jocks, and in their most generic forms. Oh and don't forget the overly strict administrator who (Surprise, Surprise) shows caring by the end of the film having a change of heart and doesn't seem so mean after all. And of course the stereotypical dumb/naive, easily excitable mother figure.The most promising thing about this movie was seeing the transition for Randal. When he came into the movie (not really a spoiler he's in the trailer and it's in the first ten minutes) he's nice, so I was excited to see his transition to becoming the villain we see him as in "Monsters Inc." and let me tell you (possible spoiler ahead, jump to next paragraph if you want absolutely nothing spoiled) it was vastly disappointing. It was literally two scenes: one where he just outwardly tells Mike he wants to be popular so he can't hang with him anymore. And the next is he's in the opposing team in a competition against Mike and Sully and loses and then says "that's the last time I lose to you, Sullivan" I was heart-brokenly disappointed at this. To me it actually belittled Randal as a villain in the original because suddenly he just didn't seem that evil anymore now knowing that it all stemmed from him losing once against Sully in University and wanting to be popular. They at least could'v developed it further...more than two scenes at least.The rest of the movie was just countless predictable plot points. It's the age old university centred movie story of rival houses having a competition (Screw it there's going to be spoilers, I'm angry and ready to rant) and of course Mike and Sully start off not being friends and what'ya know it they become friends because, common, I know you know this one... Yeahp, that's right! They discover they have to work together to succeed at things instead of trying to do it on their own and it brings them together...because we haven't seen that in a dozen Disney movies already. AND THAT'S IT! There's literally nothing more than that. The first movie was so groundbreaking and had such amazing scale and then they just took those characters, put them in university, and told a story we'v all heard plenty of times before.It wasn't even that funny. I can remember laughing out loud once: a slug monster is late for class and starts trying to run but he just goes really slow and they pull the whole "Family Guy" joke goes on longer than expected and I admittedly laughed quite long and loud. But that's it. The rest I could recognize it was supposed to be funny but it just didn't work for me. I was probably just too disappointed to laugh.The one redeeming thing about this movie (ULTIMATE SPOILER) is at the end they get expelled, which I didn't expect. It shows in a montage that they found their own way to work at Monsters Inc. showing that university isn't necessarily the only option, which I think is a good message to send to the young people of today (considering most are brainwashed the opposite).But that was it. The rest of the movie was just constantly predictable and disappointing. They had such great material to work with and it's like they didn't even try. I felt like I was watching a Disney channel show that was a spin off of one of their well known movies, or like a made for TV movie. It was the equivalent of Shrek's Christmas special...only I expect something like that from Dreamworks after seeing Shrek 2...and 3...and 4. Pixar is the last group of people I would call unimaginative, and yet here I am. They should'v left it at the original if they weren't willing to do something fresh with it. I think Pixar should stick to original films and stay away from sequels/prequels. Yes, they struck gold with Toy Story 3 apparently (I'm the only person who hasn't seen it yet), but that doesn't mean everything else needs a sequel...and yes "Plains" counts as a sequel to "Cars", I don't care what you say. Actually I wouldn't mind a sequel to "The Incredibles"...okay, if you're going to make a sequel make sure it's WORTH making and you're not just making a sequel for the sake of making it with no real original exciting story to tell. I expect other movies to make sequels without putting too much thought into if they're worth making, because they know people will see them and they'll make money. But not Pixar, they were the last production company I'd expect to do that. A sequel/prequel should be able to stand on it's own, this prequel barely stands on the shoulders of the original, it wobbles at best.I'm just so...Disappointed.
__label__2 In Psychology, we would take this movie as a perfect example of what we  call "reinforcement". If people like it, make more of it. If no one  said anything about it, no need to make it again.  So, what did everyone (myself included) talked in the first film? Those  fights were great. Loved the robots, I wanted more of them. Oh, Megan  is hot. Let's get more of her too (if by "more of her" you hear "less  of her clothes", even better). Oh, Megatron was great, sorry he had a  short time in the screen. And do on.  No one talked about the story of the movie, or how the characters were  different from each other. Of course no one paid any attention to the  dialogues. No one said how great was the continuity of the movie. No  one cared who the characters were. Thus... why bother with any of this?  There was a long time I did not see a movie so bad as this one. I am  still in shock, after 4 days. Director, writer, editor... no one had  any idea of what do to with any of those characters or how to get from  a scene to the other. No one cared for the story, why people should be  in one place or other. The plots are so scattered no one bothered to  think why a character would do something.  So, if you like the characters created in the first movie; if you like  stories; if you would like at least that you ears and/or you  intelligence don't be hurt by the most stupid lines ever told by a  human (or robot) in a movie, be careful with this movie.  But, if you want to see a lot of spare parts fighting each other, would  like to see great battles, don't care for story, dialogues or  continuity, you'll sure like this one, because it has great battle  scenes, bigger and faster than the first one. Then, maybe you'll give  and 8 instead of a 2 to Revenge of the Fallen. Myself, i like that  action scenes be part of the movie, not the movie itself.   So, be careful with the movie. Don't get any higher expectations except  some time to eat popcorn.
__label__2 I wasn't expecting much going into this film. I'm aware of director Michael Bay's history and his habit of making mindless popcorn films with huge explosions, scantily-clad women, and awful cheesy dialogue. However, I thought the first film was okay for what it was, so figured maybe I would like the sequel. I was dead wrong. "Revenge of the Fallen" is the most ridiculous campy, poorly-written and poorly-directed piece of garbage to come out this year. The acting by Shia LaBeouf and Megan Fox is average, and the special effects are extremely well done. That's about the only saving grace for this film.The writing is so unbelievable you almost have to see it to believe it. At one point a character actually utters the line "not on my watch." No one in the history of the military has ever said this outside of a film. Reading over the screenplay, you would think it was some terrible Transformers fan faction written by a tenth grader and posted to the Internet. The dialogue is HORRIBLE. This would be a great movie if it was targeted to 9 year olds, but the overt sexual references and language suggest an older demographic. Maybe it's because Bay is trying to please a wide range of people, and maybe that's why we have jokes made about Transformer Testicles and there's a scene where a transformer (with a Jersey accent much less) tries to hump Megan Fox's leg. What possible reason is this robot trying to hump her leg? Is that the way they procreate? There is ZERO excuse for it other than a cheap laugh. And that's ALL the jokes are, cheap laughs. I honestly would not have been surprised to see a transformer fart in this film, or maybe a scene where a transformer gets high. It wouldn't matter if it made sense because an intoxicated transformer would be HILARIOUS. But don't worry, because there's plenty of scenes of Sam's mother accidentally getting high at college and proceeding to follow the Robin Williams/Jim Carey acting formula of physical humor. Then there are Skids and Mudflap - two Decepticons who can't read, speak in "jive," act like gangster-wannabes, and fight a lot. One of them even has a gold tooth (I am not making that up). I am one of the last people you will meet who cares about things being PC or will ever claim anything is racist unless it is blatant, but this was a BLATANT stereotype. I cannot believe this made it into the movie. I wouldn't call it racist, but if these characters had actually been human, the NAACP would have freaked out.This movie is also insanely long, at a running time of 2.5 hours. This probably could have been avoided if there wasn't so much slow motion footage of people running. I was miserable after the first 45 minutes. Bay should have cut at a minimum, the last half hour off of the movie. The action scenes, while good, were way too confusing. The robots are so complex you can't tell what is happening since it's so fast and you can't figure out Transformers: "Revenge of the Fallen" is not Armageddon. It is not Bad Boys. It is definitely not the Rock. Say what you will about those films, they at least had somewhat decent plots and required some brain activity. This movie is nothing but pure mindless action, awful jokes, and gratuitous shots of Megan Fox (and only one of those is a good thing).
__label__2 Make no mistake, a great number of people will be entertained by this flick and it offers, well, to say the least, a few aircraft carriers full of special effects for your money. Sadly, that's about everything good there is to say about "Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen". Not only was the huge number of negative reviews for this film justified, but the second cinematic installment in the "Transformers" series is really paradigmatic of everything movies should not be.It all starts with the sub-par acting of Shia LeBeouf, which, by now at least, no longer comes as a surprise. Megan Fox, who plays the admittedly hot Mikaela Banes, doesn't really help either, as her role seems to be limited to bumping into stuff, falling and subsequently finding herself in ready-made bikini model poses, cleavage wide open. The story, if that is what we can call what little is left when we subtract 140 minutes of explosions from the film, is so blatantly drenched in in-ya-face product placement that even the most bullshit-resistant viewers will find it hard to look away.Now you might say: "Fair enough, but wasn't the first 'Transformers' just the same?". Well, here's where the real problems of "Revenge of the Fallen" start. While the original "Transformers" had some genuinely original, funny and gripping moments, "Revenge of the Fallen" largely lacks these elements. Most of the transforming and warping sidekicks are simply robotic versions of stale clichés, the humor has taken a turn for the worse and hardly any suspense builds up at all. It is this general lack of originality that makes for the new "Transformers" film to be so much less than good and entertaining popcorn cinema.150 minutes of random stuff blowing up without any real substance to the plot, cliché upon cliché, bad actor upon bad actor, and every so often a pseudo-moralistic lecture given to the audience by some over-sized pile of talking CGI-rubble - I can do without that kind of wisdom! Even just thinking about how many more people are going to watch this movie rather than one of this summer's real cinematic gems, such as Charlie Kaufman's "Synechdoche, New York", makes me a little sick!
__label__2 Let me start off by stating that I am not a huge Transformers fan, I never really watched the show as a kid and I didn't really play with the toys or games. Having said that, I remember being highly impressed with the first Michael Bay Transformers movie when I saw it in theaters. Was it a perfect movie? No, but as far as a mindless action flick went it was pretty good. It had great effects and the action was well done. This movie has the benefit of better graphics, but loses anything else. There is no character development, the dialogue was full of cheesy lines and unfunny humor (there was one character that I actually cheered for when he died because his dialogue was nothing but crappy one-liners), and there was no cohesiveness to the story. The biggest sin that Bay committed on this movie, however, is he made the action boring. When you get to a certain point of this movie and you see another explosion, that looks exactly the same as the last 15 that happened in the last 3 seconds of the film, you start to wonder why you should care for this threat? For that matter, why should the audience care for any of these characters? None of them display anything that makes the audience connect with them, and because of this you don't care for any of them. Sadly Michael Bay has not learned that character development and plot are more important than constantly filling the screen with action. In a good movie you care about the characters, so when a threat comes against them you are emotionally invested in the character and when they come out on top it is all the more rewarding (or crushing when a character you care for loses). This movie is more akin to dangling the keys in front of an infant, it has just as much noise and sparkle and just as little substance.
__label__2 This is definitely one of the worst films i have ever seen. To start with, i should say that i was transformer fan and used to read the Marvel comics. However i almost dozed off in the middle of the film and the only reason i didn't was that the film kept booming all the way through. I cannot stand the tedious plot- if there ever was a meaningful plot- from the beginning, almost. When the monologue of the CIA officer started, you basically got a clue what was going to happen: a new villain comes, cooperating with some secret government divisions and almost defeating Optimus, and Optimus finds some new fancy magic to kill the villain. And sadly as it turned out that the guess was right for the most part. The film is full of slow motions that proved to be unnecessary and time-wasting, and CG effects that proved to be pointless when there is no plot. What is the point of special effects after all? To serve the story and create visual impact of course. But haven't we seen many films with those explosions and fighting before? This is not 1980s when the special effects are so groundbreaking that people all went to watch Star Wars for the new effects. The CG effects in films cannot be seen and treated as an END, but a MEANS. Surely CGs can be an end, but only to programmers perhaps, definitely not to audiences. Yeah I know you can make Optimus riding a dinosaur but so what? Bay understood this the whole other way around: the point of the plot seems to be creating more opportunities to present all the CG effects. The characters, both human and alien, were poorly created. The transformers from the first film of the series seemed to be made for fighting and had no culture or society of their own. Any fantasy or science-fiction film should at least explain a little bit about that or otherwise those fighting machines do not seem to be realistic. There was NEVER a complex plot happening amongst the transformers, which, ironically, the comics did an excellent job in. The only transformer character in whom some efforts were put into is Optimus, who nonetheless appears as a fighting machine, more so than Megatron in the comics, and lacks proper leadership and sophisticated mind. He does not seem to be charismatic and the only reason he was the leader seems to be that he is a greater FIGHTER than anyone else. Where is the prudent and messianic Optimus? Where is the lovable bumblebee? Most of the human characters can simply be eliminated from the film and no different will be made. And I still don't understand why Wahlberg's character keeps finding troubles for himself and his daughter even though they are safely out from the fight. Tucci's character is simply moved by an ambiguous call from Wahlberg and changes all his plans and thoughts, too gullible to be believed as realistic. The CIA officer actually can be used to create a moral dilemma in which people have to choose between the safety of their own and abandonment of the faithful allies and of course that didn't happen. I saw no romance between the lovers. Going through some escapes doesn't mean two people automatically love each other. There are lots of screaming of the two though, but doesn't seem like romance to me. The protective dad enjoys dragging his daughter and her boyfriend into troubles which he has no reason to concern. SAVE YOUR MONEY, PEOPLE.
__label__2 For a comic book movie, Green Lantern had the potential to be great. If the writers of the movie even watched the animated movie First Flight, they would've been able to come up with a better script than what they did. I think the cast did the best that they could with the corny lines and terrible writing.Ryan Reynolds was believable as Hal Jordan, Blake Lively was exceptional in her role (which primarily involved looking pretty which she is good at) and Mark Strong as Sinestro was flawless. Though I thoroughly disliked what the writers did to this movie, I do hope the GL series isn't written off. There is still enough in the story of Green Lantern for a sequel, but for the love of Oa the old script writers need to go and a brand new team needs to bring something to the table. Mark Strong is an acting powerhouse and as we have seen in the Dark Knight, it is the villain and not the hero that makes an exceptional comic book movie! Sinestro has to do for GL what the Joker did for Batman! Thats my 2 cents
__label__2 Back in 1977 when George Lucas told a story in the frame of Joseph Campbells Heroes Journey, it was unique. When Sam Raimi told a super hero story with the same structure in 2002, there was still plenty it added a new filter. And, when Jon Favreau did it again in 2008, he added enough unique touches to the tale to reinvigorate what was becoming a tired formula.The writers of Green Lantern felt it was enough to skim cliffnotes of Campbell and write the film based on their notes of the reading and half remembered recollections of reading comic books when they were 12. There is nothing new in this film. A man is given a magic ring which takes him out of the world of the ordinary and makes him a hero. We don't grow to care about him because he doesn't grow or change... he simply goes through the motions because the script tells him to.Ryan Reynolds tries his best with a weak and contrived script, but he still comes off too snarky to be the overconfident jet pilot he's supposed to be. It's not all his fault, as the script is much more content to tell us what the cast is feeling or thinking instead of letting the actors convey it through their actions, inflections or looks. It is as if the writers had no faith in their cast or direction, let alone their audience, and dumbed the entire affair down below even the cartoon portrayals of the character.The visuals are nice, but never have weight, leading to the effect that Ryan Reynolds head if occasionally floating through a video game. It's sad to think it's been six years since Gollum, and this is the best Warner Brothers can offer us in a tent pole film. It's also a shame to think this is the best they could do with only 37 million dollars less than Avatar. Again, it just shows that the production staff was lazy, never pushing it to look better, and instead setting for the "they'll think it looks cool" effect.We should demand better from comic book films. After having Dark Knight and Iron Man in a single year, we should not be subjected to subpar outings like this. Fun is one thing, mind numbingly dumb and lazy is another.Skip this in the theater. Wait for it to come to NetFlix and then forget to put it in your cue. You'll thank me.
__label__2 This film is "inoffensive" in a way. Nothing hateful or terribly gross or upsetting about it. But it does have at least two major problems that had I known fully what they were beforehand, I would have saved myself a bit of money and my time, and done something else.One, this is yet another in the tiresome line of uninspired movies based on a comic book. You'd think the collective hearts and minds of what we call "Hollywood" could come up with an original idea. Spending $150 million on a gimicky re-working of some other person's idea (that is, ripping off the comic book writers) really seems stupid. There are many talented artists out there whose work not only deserves to be funded, but whose work would be a lot more interesting. Maybe even exciting! And maybe, in at least a few cases, uplifting or inspiring in some way that actually contributes something to all of us--- which is the true purpose of art anyway, right?And two, this wasn't very carefully thought out or written. You've heard criticisms of previous special FX movies where the reviewer bemoans all the slam-bam frenetic FX shots, one after another. I promise that if you are unfortunate enough to sit through this movie your jaw will drop at the sheer amount of literally non-stop whiz-bang FX- not even one after another so much as one continuous blast of the CGI cartoonist's most hectic product.The plot points were not self-evident, at least not to me. Jet races were followed by jump cuts to kitchen scenes and then inter-galactic scenes, then space, then what appeared to be Hell, then "mysterioso" councils of wizened old cartoon "yoda" types, etc. A virtually indestructible space warrior (we find out later he was the strongest, bravest, most clever, the final hope of the Universe, etc.--- yet he somehow got shot in the shoulder and is in the process of flying his broken spaceship around earth, looking for a place to crash and die. Oh wait- he doesn't die until he tells his green ring to "choose well," and then somehow Ryan Reynolds shows up ready to be amazed and enlisted.One question--- if the magic green ring is clever enough to find Ryan Reynolds amidst all of earth, and not just ID him but go get him, place him in a protective green bubble then whisk him 100 miles to the dying space warrior in instant--- why couldn't such a nifty ring fix a wounded shoulder?Scenes reminiscent of the covers of 1950s sci-fi paperback books showed vague and ill-defined landscapes of rocks and cliffs and rubble. That kind of thing is OK, and might fit into some stories--- but nothing was explained, nothing was set-up, nothing was logical. Not even "artistically" logical.I like Ryan Reynolds. Tim Robbins has always been a sturdy enough character actor, and a few of the other secondary characters here were played by good actors as well. But dang- I had no idea what they were doing. What's with that creepy doctor guy? What is the evident long-term relationship between him and Ryan Reynolds? What was he doing in the movie anyway, except to turn physically hideous and provide a bit of senseless peril to the Pretty Girl? I don't know- none of that was established.Bottom line- this was just plain stupid. And not because it was "fantastical" or weird or sci-fi. Rather, because it was simply not good work.
__label__2 The film was horrible.With that said I'll start with the good. Karl Urban's Dr. McCoy was the one shining star in the film. His deadpan line, "He'd let you die Jim" was perfect. It showed the struggle between compassion and logic that was so well portrayed by Kelly and Nimoy in the original series. First, the film completely disregards Star Trek cannon. Christopher Pike does not live through the movie to end up as a quadriplegic on Talos IV. The Klingon home world, Kronos, appears to have a moon, Praxis, that has exploded, except this doesn't happen until Star Trek VI. All this is forgivable however; new movies for a new generation that knows nothing about Star TrekSecond, what isn't forgivable is that basic Newtonian physics and science is so poorly understood by the film makers that it distracts from the movie. Some examples of plainly not understand that the world around you is governed by science and not magic are: the heat from the volcano is attributed to damaging shuttle craft Galileo yet the heat caused by de-orbiting the shuttle craft would far exceed any heat caused by a volcano. In the same sequence, the Enterprise is parked underwater. Are we to believe that a star ship that must be constructed in space and is designed to be used for interstellar travel also doubles as a submarine? When was the last time that you boarded a 747 to go on an undersea adventure? And why in the hell would they park the Enterprise underwater when they could be invisible in orbit directly above the volcano and use sensors and transporters? Other big issues are that the crew of the starship Enterprise does not know the distance of the moon's orbit. Ask Neil Armstrong, I bet he figured it out 300 years earlier. I think the first question on starship helmsman's exam should be, "Where is the moon and so you don't hit it?" Next when the ship can no longer hold orbit, it falls back to earth in a few minutes like a stone dropped into a pond. Newton? Never heard of him! What laws of motion? I think movies reflect a lot upon a generation. This new generation claims nerds are cool, but has no manned space program. Your parents' generation actually walked on the moon.Third, when the script however fails to make common sense, it throws you outside the movie and this makes the movie 'unfun'. After a secure, secret Starfleet facility is attacked, Starfleet Command decides to meet in an unprotected high rise. I guess in the 23rd century, rank isn't correlated with intelligence or experience. Next, the Klingons are a war like race equally as advanced as humans that have developed space travel but they don't bother to guard their entire home world. They actually sound pretty easy to conquer. That's okay because humans are just as dumb; two Federation ships appear in earth orbit to duke it out and there are no other Federation ships around. Please, will one ship randomly fall on San Francisco? We sound pretty easy to conquer too. Let's not forget about the unnecessary, obligatory, giant tittied girl in skimpy underwear to make all the 14 year old boys have happy wet dreams. I love nude women as much as the next guy but porn has it's time and place and this wasn't it Unless you are a 14 year old boy with $10.50 for a movie and no other access to porn.When Kirk died, why did Dr. McCoy need Kahn's blood to save him? He had 72 genetically engineered humans from the eugenics war frozen in front of him. The Eugenics Wars are well documented. He actually had to thaw one of those guys out to put Kirk in the life support tube. Why not use his blood or one of the other 71 samples of super blood?Fourth, I remember when Spock died in Star Trek II, people cried, it was debated if he could really be dead. It was an emotional heartfelt moment that asked the audience to way, "the needs of the many, versus the needs of the few." Did anyone really think Jim was dead in this movie? He was dead for all of five minutes! It was a completely wasted scene because it was devoid of emotional connection. I believe it was 30 seconds wedged in the middle of two action sequences. This may be because modern movie audiences lack the social skills such as empathy which are necessary for bonding with others. So the film makers simply recreate a scene from the past devoid of emotion and the audience believes it has the received the same spellbinding moment that their parents received.The only emotion portrayed in the whole film is the Caulfield like teenage angst of Captain Kirk. Great men are no longer portrayed as being challenged with great responsibility or moral questions but now face the pubescent problems of spoiled teenagers. This is the greatest reason why this new Star Trek movie fails. Gene Roddenberry created a future where men had moved beyond many of humanities vices. He created a series of moral plays in his "Wagon train to the sky"; the original series is more like twilight zone episodes than anything else. Where in this movie did you feel good about humanity? Did this movie make you feel like we could end the Iraq War? That's how the old series made you feel about Vietnam and the Cold War. Did it make you feel that bigotry toward gays would end? That's how the original series made you feel about racism. The movie is an epic fail that reflects a generation that is an epic failure.
__label__2 Where do I start?I'm a huge fan of the original movies and I admit, I enjoyed the 2009 film. Why? Because the well got dry and it seemed there wasn't anywhere left to go with the franchise. So, seeing as Abrams alluded to everyone that by taking the franchise back to where it all began and altering the time line, it was his intention to re-tell stories from the original "series" and breathe new life into them. Naturally, I thought he was talking about the original "TV series" from the 60's. Fine by me, because the original TV series was cool, but it's pretty much outdated.This latest movie has shown me that it's obvious he just wants to do the "films" of the 80's and 90's all over again, but in his own image, which is... an abundance of lens flares and people who are only good at looking pretty on screen. And that, in my opinion, is not what Star Trek is about. He even stated in an interview with Jon Stewart recently on The Daily Show, that he never was a fan of Star Trek as a child because he didn't get "the philosophy" of Star Trek. This movie is proof that he still doesn't get it. If he wants to make flashy sci-fi movies with no depth or substance, fine, there are plenty of scripts out there for him to make this kind of bland movie that attracts dimwitted people. So please Mr. Abrams, leave Star Trek alone, you are only making it worse.Abrams might be trying to get "non-Trekkers" to enjoy the franchise, but in order to do so, he is replacing everything that made Star Trek what it was in the first place. I'd love for more people to get into Star Trek, but not at the expense of my enjoyment of it. This movie has nothing more to offer than Transformers did, snazzy special effects and a story line riddled with plot holes and love/hate relationships between the characters that seem forced and unauthentic.Which brings me to my next point. Orci, Kurtzman and Lindelof. Where did these men learn to write? They use the technology of Star Trek only to advance the plot or create tension when needed. For instance, a transporter that the enemy uses can transport him light years to another planet, but the transporters on the Enterprise have a hard job locking onto a person on the planet they are orbiting, a hand-held communicator that can call someone in a bar on Earth from the Klingon home world light years away, infiltrating a top secret military base with a shuttle craft without being spotted by sensors, and the list goes on.The last part of the movie they just got so lazy that they re-created the whole death scene at the end of Wrath of Khan, but mirrored it by reversing the roles. And if that's not enough, the writers blatantly do a copy/paste of most of the dialogue like "If we go in there we'll die, the radiation will kill us" and "The decontamination process is not complete, you'll flood the whole compartment."Later on they even forget that the attributes that makes Khan's blood special, and which is needed to revive Kirk, also flows through the veins of the other 72 augments sitting in cryogenic tubes in McCoy's sick bay, the same cryogenic tubes that McCoy himself says earlier in the movie he could not risk opening without possibly killing the person inside, which could have been a solid reason to send Spock chasing after Khan in a foot- chase through downtown San-Francisco to retrieve a sample of Khan's blood, but instead, they have McCoy open a cryogenic tube and remove it's occupant in order to freeze Kirk so he can preserve his brain functions, I believe his exact words were "Get this guy out of the cryo-tube, keep him in an induced coma." but still, poor McCoy doesn't realize he could use that person's blood to revive Kirk. So now we are led to believe that McCoy, the same McCoy who based most of his arguments on ethics throughout the series and movies, is perfectly capable of opening one of the tubes, risking another being's life in the process, all to save another man? A little unethical if you ask me. These guys obviously don't know what the hell they are doing when it comes to writing Star Trek movies.This movie is, in my opinion, the worst in the entire series. Yes even "The Final Frontier", because at least Shatner had the guts to go where no other writer or director had gone before or since with that movie, by doing a story about God.
__label__2 ******SPOILERS BELOW******When I saw the starship Vengeance crash into San Francisco, I thought, "This is what J.J. Abrams has done to Star Trek."Already, some of you might be sneering, "Another bashing from someone who knows nothing about Star Trek." I reiterate what I wrote 4 years ago about the previous movie (review #347, posted 5/9/2009): I was a Star Trek fan since The Original Series was on NBC. I have seen every episode of every TV series, including The Animated Series, and all 12 movies. I found the previous movie repulsive, but hoped that Abrams would deliver a better 2nd act. Instead, this movie was even worse.I shall begin by listing the few positives in this movie. Once again, Chris Pine and Zachary Quinto gave very good performances. Once again, ILM produced very good visual effects.End of positives. Here come the negatives, in random order.The dress uniforms were comical. They looked like parodies of Nazi German uniforms. The standard uniforms still looked like cheap knockoffs I would find in a second-rate costume shop.Once again, the Enterprise's Bridge looked like a disco. Once again, Abrams included irritating shots of glare to make the movie more "realistic." Once again, Engineering looked like an oil refinery. Once again, this Enterprise is a pale shadow of the original NCC-1701.Once again, we had a very loud and very forgettable soundtrack.Once again, we saw Scotty's pint-size companion, Keenser - a.k.a. Cabbageface, a.k.a. Rockface, a.k.a. the Jar Jar Binks of Star Trek.We saw Doctor Carol Marcus, but now she's British?? And a weapons specialist?? Now Chekov is not only an Engineer, but (temporarily) the ship's Chief Engineer?? Apparently, Paramount is allowing J.J. Abrams to turn the Star Trek universe upside-down and inside-out.When the Enterprise visited Nibiru, she was underwater, and Spock (and, eventually, Starfleet Command) were worried about the Nibirans seeing the ship emerge from the sea. Objection #1: Why was the ship underwater? Couldn't the mission be conducted with the Enterprise in orbit? Objection #2: Considering the water pressure on the ship's hull, why didn't we hear any creaking in the hull or see any breaches caused by the pressure? The shields weren't up because Scotty complained about the sea water corroding the hull. Objection #3: How did the ship enter the water without any Nibirans seeing her? Was the Enterprise invisible during descent? Are all the planet's humanoids in that one small village?What I did in the previous paragraph is called Thinking About What I'm Watching. This is what we should do when watching any Star Trek story. But in J.J. Abrams' version of Star Trek, we are expected to stop thinking and just watch the loud, frantic action.Now we come to Khan Noonien Singh. Abrams has transformed Khan from a Sikh Indian into a Brit. (Is Abrams obsessed with Brits?) Also, Khan's blood can resurrect the dead! So now Khan is like Robert Neville in The Omega Man (1971), or - dare I say it - Jesus Christ. (This Is The Cup Of My Blood, The Blood Of The New And Everlasting Covenant, etc.) Obviously, Starfleet Medical should extract blood samples from those 73 superhumans so that Starfleet personnel who are killed can be resurrected. (Again, we are supposed to stop thinking.)This movie had two scenes that may be disturbing - even traumatic - to some viewers: the explosion in London, and the crash of the Vengeance in San Francisco. Many people in the Boston area (after 4/15/2013), the New York City area (after 9/11/2001), and the London area (after 7/7/2005) may be appalled by this exploitation of massive tragedies. Abrams might be trying to assuage such objections by dedicating the movie to first-responders and military personnel "after 9/11." But this still looks like exploitation.I'm not the only veteran Star Trek fan who saw the ripoff of Star Trek II - The Wrath Of Khan and Star Trek III - The Search For Spock. The minor changes: Kirk enters the radiation-filled warp-core chamber; Spock gets to bellow, "KHAN!!" (which was almost comical); instead of The Genesis Effect, the resurrection agent is Khan's blood. Also, Kirk's death gives Spock another excuse to act like a brutal savage (what would Sarek say?), and Abrams an excuse to stage an absurd high-altitude fight scene.Let's debunk the basic defense of J.J. Abrams; i.e., that he saved Star Trek. He has replaced Gene Roddenberry's version with his own version. In the pre-Abrams chapters of Star Trek, we saw intelligent stories with strongly-defined characters. But Abrams has replaced that with movies loaded with loud, frantic action but thin on story and logic. Obviously, this is appealing to the only movie fans who count: teenagers, who expect every movie to resemble a 3-D video game. I saw the 2-D version (on the night of May 19), and noticed that the theater was only half-full and devoid of teenagers. Apparently, the Target Audience gathered in the 3-D theater. We can expect every future Star Trek movie to follow the Abrams Canon: virtually non-stop, loud, 3-D action, with very little intelligence.Paramount's weak excuse is, "We still have Star Trek." We still have Saturday Night Live, too. But both have become pale shadows of their original selves. Thanks to J.J. Abrams, I am no longer a Star Trek fan.
__label__2 Oh dear, oh dear.Just goes to show that squillions of dollars and a shed-load of cgi effects can't make up for a totally loopy, over-blown,juvenile 'plot'.It wasn't all bad - Spock and Harrison/Khan were actually pretty good, and the aforesaid cgi was exciting (albeit in a derivative kinda way).But...Pine was hopeless (except when being 'bad ass' he just looked goosed),whilst the excellent Urban, Soldana and Pegg were woefully under-used.The story made no freaking sense, having more holes in it than a Tetley teabag. There was little in the way of dialogue and less in the way of character development. The 'climax', with Spock and Khan going three rounds on the back of a flying dustcart, came straight out of a 1950s 'Flash Gordon' matinée.The musical score was of the DAHN-DAHN-DAHHHHHHNNNNNN variety, heavily underscoring any emotional sub-text that we dullards might have failed to notice.Please tell me JJ Abrams has left the building.Please make it stop.Perhaps then somebody good could take on the Trek franchise - Joss Whedon anyone?
__label__2 *** SPOILERS ***Star Trek Into DUMBNESS is action packed. Stop reading now if you loved the film because that's the nicest thing I will say. Chris Pine has pretty blue eyes. (Last chance to stop.)Roger Ebert is looking down from heaven wishing he were still alive so that he could rip Star Trek Into Dumbness to shreds. (God bless you, Roger. And while you're up there, send my sympathies to Gene Roddenberry. It's all gone to Sh--, Gene.)Star Trek Into Dumbness will gross a mountain of money because of its solid special effects and frenetic and constant action that has apparently put many viewers' brains on stun. But make no mistake, this high octane Red Bull film is flat out bad.Star Trek The Reboot "jumps the shark" in the very first sequence here. Spock goes into a volcano, the Enterprise is now a submarine... The only way it could have been more abominable is if Jar Jar Binks had shown up. Actually the Enterprise in the water is a symbol – this movie is a turd. A giant stinking floating turd. Very sad.(Um, note to technical folks: "Cold Fusion" has nothing to do with actual coldness and cannot freeze super-hot molten lava. But, of course, bad science does not a bad film make – a bad script does that.)The deftly made first film in the franchise rebirth perfectly handled the origins of multiple characters yet managed to be a rip roaring good time - a feat all in itself. It should have been downhill, smooth sailing all the way after that for gents with such talent. But me thinks now our director and screenwriters are spreading themselves a little too thin with too many gigs.The film brings back an old and beloved original series villain and in doing so serves to remind fans how good Wrath of Khan really was.Into Dumbness is a convoluted mess.The characters have completely devolved into caricatures.There are too many jokes by too many characters – a misstep which also strips the drama away with misplaced humor. (Pity our future if everyone's making jokes when big bad things start to happen.)The whole Kirk-Spock "I am your friend" stuff just doesn't work because the filmmakers have not built the friendship in a meaningful way between these two in the 120 minutes that precede it.There is in fact no relationship building for any of these characters (unless you consider the insufferable Spock and Uhura teen romance squabbles an example of relationship building). Plot and character have been sacrificed for action, with expository speeches in the final act used in an attempt to patch all the holes (and beg viewers for forgiveness if they were still paying attention).I still can't figure out the narrative. Something about explosions I think. Oh, the Klingons were in the film too pretty early on but they were forgotten along the way. We're at war with them now – or so we are TOLD I think. Can't really remember; I may have have gotten an early jump on my 2013 tax returns by that point in the screening.Nice to see RoboCop getting work though – even if it was a one-note role far beneath his talents.Thank the Great God of Cinema that J.J. is just directing the next Star Wars movie and that the reins of that franchise are in other hands. There still may be hope.
__label__2 While you're in the theater watching this "new" Star Trek movie and you begin to believe you've been here once before, you're right. You have.When the movies first came out, the producers tried to tell us that the plots would be updates of past television shows. "Veeger" in the first movie was the reincarnation of a bot of another name that appeared with Shatner and Nimoy. The genetically superior dictator Khan, who first graced television in the series reappeared in the second movie. Just when we hoped we were done with the "superior intellect," lo and behold who should arrive in "Star Trek: Into Darkness?" That's right, sport fans: let's all welcome Khan back to the screen. He's pretty much the same self-absorbed, boring type only NOW he's practically as invulnerable as Superman.Of course, viewers felt as though they had been fed a pre-chewed and pre-digested rather old piece of celluloid when all they wanted was a movie that could "boldly go where no one has gone before." Too bad, cinema fans. That rancid taste in your mouth and the disgusting feeling of deja-vu will only leave you sighing, "Oh, no. Not again."However, if you are one who is easily swayed by characters running across the screen being chased or chasing someone, along with the loud noises so prevalent in action movies,then you'll love it.
__label__2 "Pacific Rim" is going to be a hit with fanboys all over the planet. It's the type of movie that they feel obligated to love because of what it's about and who made it. In this case we have a movie about alien dinosaurs (Kaijus) fighting giant robots (Jaegers) directed by Guillermo del Toro (filmmaker who most Comi-Con attendees think can do no wrong). Sounds like it should work on every level doesn't it? Yeah, well it doesn't!Alien monsters named Kaijus come up through a rift in the Pacific Ocean (Get it, "PACIFIC Rim"). Giant robots steered by military officers are used to battle these ferocious extraterrestrials. Our military must join forces with the world's most annoying scientists to find a way to seal off the portal between our world and the dimension they come from.Let's start out my review on a positive note. The CGI in "Pacific Rim" looks great. The aliens and robots blend very well with all their surroundings.And that's the only thing I can come up with positive about "Pacific Rim." As a whole, the movie is absolutely unbearable to sit through. It escapes me how sequences of robots and aliens fighting each other could be so uninspiring that I literally dozed off at points.The design of the Kaijus are completely unoriginal and nothing we haven't seen before in a dozen other sci-fi movies. The Jaegers are basically souped-up giant robots that resemble what we've seen in "Power Rangers" dressed in "Halo" armor. Booooring.Now we move into character development. The entire middle of the movie is one big, long, drawn-out attempt at developing characters we will feel emotionally tied to. I completely understand the writer's motivation for doing this.The problem is that every character in "Pacific Rim" is so annoying you actually want them to die or exit the screen as quickly as possible. Add to this the fact that not a single one of the actors seem to give a crap about their stereotypical role in the film and you have a serious problem. In a nutshell, the acting is absolutely horrid."Pacific Rim" is a tired conglomeration of clichés we've already seen in way better movies in the past. There are so many recycled ideas mashed up in it that you could almost put them down on a call sheet as bullet points. Character who lost his brother in a past battle and retired? Check. He's being called back into duty by his old military leader? Check. Military leader gets a chance to be the hero and sacrifice himself in one last battle? Check. Military leader gets to give long rousing inspirational speech just like the one the President gives in "Independence Day?" Check. They're all here for your predictable enjoyment.Let's just call "Pacific Rim" what it really is. It's Guillermo del Toro's failed attempt at making what he wished was his essential "Ultraman vs. Godzilla" homage. As I was running out of words to use in place of "unoriginal," I came across several synonyms that describe this movie to a tee: dull, unoriginal, corny, heavy-handed, humdrum, ordinary, phoned in, stale, uncreative, unexciting, unimaginative, unimpressive, uninspiring, uninteresting, and uninventive.I'm giving parents a warning in closing. There's no way any child under the age of 12 will sit through "Pacific Rim." Absolutely nothing exciting happens for 45 minutes in the middle, at which time they will get uncontrollably antsy and beg you to leave. This won't bother you because you'll be ready to run out of the theater screaming by then anyway.
__label__2 // Minor spoilers and bad guy ultimate plot revealed in last paragraph, but it's so stupid you want to know it. Long and rant filled review.Let's start with 10 stars.Rosie and Shia wouldn't know how to fake chemistry if someone wrapped a lead pipe in the periodic table and beat them upside their botoxed faces for an hour. The romance part is so awful, so cheesy in this movie, it takes down a star right off the bat. I will also mention the "romance" between Optimus Prime and America - the "one and only real and holy country in the world". *puke* 9 / 10.Rosie has to be mentioned again as a standalone entry. I can imagine how the casting went.. Bay walks into modeling agency, closes his eyes and says "Eeny, meeny, miny, moe, you're the clone that comes along!", thereby picking out the 403rd pair of tits in the lineup. A horrible actress, pretentious character and a so obnoxiously unnecessary role the movie would have been two stars better if she were not there at all. Also, lips are not supposed to look like that. If I was Shia, I'd worry "Are you sure your lips don't hurt? Can we kiss? Won't a stitch break or something?"7 / 10.At one point, a guy "hacks" a bridge. He logs into the "bridge control" , and lowers it. Hollywood, bridges do not have an open internet connection with a designated port for "Bridge Control API", otherwise every hacker would be lowering and raising bridges everywhere.6 / 10.Since the black guy stereotypes in Transformers2 got some bad rep, Bay went the other way this time - Irish and Scottish. Yes, there is a green robot with an Irish accent, and a red robot with a huge belly and a beard, with a Scottish accent. How did that happen? Did they scan an Ire/Scot when they landed instead of a car? If so, weren't they supposed to turn into the robot-terminator-chick type from Transformers 2?5 / 10.Physics. Oh god, the physics. Dear Michael Bay, please realize the following: a) Moon sand is a highly corrosive and metal-unfriendly substance. Any kind of moving metalpart coming in that much contact with it would self destruct by the time it made 3 steps. b) One plane was enough to collapse a Twin Tower into dust. A seventy million billion ton robot shooting and crashing into a building will not make it "tilt slightly" and when that building falls, it will not get stuck between two others like a bridge, ever, regardless what it's made of, especially if that same robot is still crawling through it and destroying chunks. c) When stuff explodes near people, people tend to be stunned, burned and / or get shrapnel shot into their spines. They do not sit idly by and contemplate the situation. So if a grenade explodes in an office cubicle next to the one where the protagonist is standing, he will most probably DIE. d) You cannot grab a SHARP, MAD, DANGEROUS robot by the neck and keep it in control. You will LOSE YOUR FINGERS. e) Do you have any idea how much extra it costs to send an extra kilogram into space in a shuttle? Now imagine how much fuel and money you would need to send 10 million-ton robots into space with a regular human space shuttle launcher. f) When people fly through glass, they ALWAYS get cut. When they fly through 10 panes of glass, they DIE. When they fly through 20, they DON'T, because they got impaled on the 12th or 13th.4/10Stealing characters from other franchises just for the kick of it is not cool. You have a predator robot, a robot that is "Q from James Bond", etc. What...?3 / 10.Plot: If I was an evil genius and built a war-turning technology, I definitely would not build it so that it has exactly one weak point that, if struck, undoes absolutely everything it ever did, and I would definitely not leave it exposed. The bad guys' ultimate plan was to teleport their PLANET to Earth's atmosphere in order to rebuild it. This raises several issues: 1) You would have approximately 10 minutes to live, before Earth and Cybertron collided due to gravity. Those 10 minutes would be filled with an apocalypse due to uncontrollable floods caused by tides. 2) If you want 6 billion people for the sole purpose of slave labor, you should think about point 1). Also, it is stupid to believe 6 billion people could rebuild a robotic planet sooner or better than 1000 decepticons - you not only have to accommodate and feed the people, but also modify the planet's surface for them to be able to move on it. 3) There is a part where Megatron is chillaxing in an alley after a big fight, and the flat-lipped wonder of a model-clone that is Carly comes up to him spewing some bullshit about the other bad guy getting ready to betray him. Now, even if she made a point, I would still CRUSH that human insect. A meaningless pretentious bitch telling me what to think? I'm a god damn eleventy billion ton robot, you skank! *crush* The other critically stupid thing is the fact that Megatron then prevents the other bad guy from killing Optimus. If you have two enemies who are fighting, it is generally not a good idea to prevent them from killing each other! And while we're here, the decepticons could have won if the bad guy had just used one of the 994208 chances to kill Optimus he's had up until this point.This brings the movie down to 1/10, but I'll give it a star for excellent special effects. 2/10.
__label__2 Around a half hour into watching the third installment in the Michael Bay driven Transformers franchise, a very serious thought entered my head."What the f*** is this movie?"I really am not sure where to begin when discussing such a chaotic mess that seemed like a 6 hour movie stuffed into a two and a half hour potato sack and beaten repeatedly with a pillow case filled with bars of soap.I guess we can start with the goals that seemed to be laid out in making this third film.First off, action and CGI were, without a doubt, the number one priority in this film. This makes complete sense. The action and CGI is really exciting to look at and a getaway for some viewers when they see a film; robots transforming from cars, buildings collapsing from the sky, soldiers flying into battle in wing suits, and what must have been thousands of explosions all in 3D.The next objective had to be comic relief. If you are a minor character, you will say something funny. If you are a small transforming robot, you will definitely say something funny. Don't forget to make the jokes a little more vulgar than the first two films and even a little cheesier. Cheese sells.The last major objective had to be how much sex appeal can we put in this movie. I suppose when you cast the likes of a Victoria Secret model in her first role in a film (see my previous article about Ms. Huntington-Whiteley from yesterday) and the hunky doctor from Grey's Anatomy your film is set to draw boys and girls alike.The film accomplishes all of these goals, but at what cost (now it's as if I'm talking in an Optimus Prime voice). What about story? Coherence? Character development? Audience to character relationship?It seems like I am just beating a dead horse over and over again (or a horse that surely does more coke than Tony Montana when directing his films), but I am more and more offended each time I see a Michael Bay film. Even more so, I am offended every time some moron in the theater tonight started clapping when Bumble Bee had a stellar looking upper cut kill or Rosie Huntington-Whiteley stood slow-mo with explosions blasting all around her (not joking, they clapped).Transformers: Dark of the Moon is a bumbling mess of fire and loud noises and is just another film for Michael Bay to add to the references on his resume for most ridiculous director of all time.Even worse is the flow and logic of Dark of the Moon. I have seen plenty of films to accept that not understanding what is going on doesn't really matter, but it is different with a mainstream blockbuster. When watching a David Lynch film, you can expect something like this. When watching a film about transforming robots, coherence should be somewhat standard.For the first hour and a half of the film I had no idea what city the film was in. I heard Sam (Shia LaBeouf) say "DC" early on, so I assumed that was where we were. But then his girlfriend Carly (Huntington- Whiteley) worked at the Milwaukee Art Museum (it took a while to realize that the museum was now fictionally home to her boss) and a fight takes place on a highway listing signs to "Aurora" and "Rt. 20" (names that any Chicago kid would recognize). Hell, the headquarters of NEST is clearly the downtown loop area.So after a certain transformer leaves the NEST headquarters and is next to the reflecting pool in DC moments later, I thought "either Bay has decided his audience will have no idea what length of time passes from cut to cut or Milwaukee and Chicago are now Washington DC." I think the answer is the latter, but I am still not sure.This is just one example of the incoherence that can be found in this film (like how Bumble Bee saves Sam in the middle of the battle and moments later is on his knees for execution by the hands of the decepticons). It is bewildering how unorganized this film is.Maybe the final goal of Michael Bay in this film was to bring back memories of some of the most significant events in the United States since the 1960s. The film includes the Apollo 11 story, a rocket ship blowing up after take off that is extremely familiar to the Challenger explosion in 1986, and, as if the event being referenced wasn't fresh in many minds, sky scrapers tumbling to the ground and characters falling out of windows to their death.There seemed to be no goal to the film other than mind fluff; expensive, loud, and annoyingly repetitive mind fluff. As a major credit to the special effects and CGI team, the film's action is a tremendous accomplishment. The problem is the success is contained in a film that has absolutely no other redeeming qualities.Transformers: Dark of the Moon is almost too bad to describe. I would like to say it contains the worst story and flow in any movie I have ever seen, but that would just seem overly dramatic. I will say this, there were much better ways I could have spent my $15.50 and two and a half hours of my life than seeing this film. There have been enough films with explosions in the last five years to not have one for another 50.
__label__2 i checked IMDb today after i came home from the cinema, and saw that the movie has almost 7 points... i just had to register to write this review.It was absolutely terrible. In advance, i'd like to apologize for using the world "ridiculous" too many times, but that's the best one to describe this masterpiece. of course one would expect that a story about 30 m high robots is a little bit ridiculous, but it was really over the top. After things started going, there wasn't a single minute in the film where something utterly ridiculous did not happen. So many examples... I'll list some of them and some of my problemsthe chick checks the 2 evil robots with the spyglass, sees that they have an argument. later on, she decides to turn megatron against the bearded guy (the super villain high tech robot megatron), and she persuades him. yeah, that's right. that's some neat intrigue you might expect from hose luis Fernando from a Brazilian soap opera, you get it here with a super robot in a 100 million dollar budget film with Steven Spielberg's name. they don't stop telling each other secrets of the government. no question, no reason, it's needed because the story can't progress, so why not tell something that's been a state secret for 30 years, or even yell it in front of 30 people. every time this happens, you just ask loudly in your chair: WHY THE HELL DID HE TELL THAT? but there's never an answerno one thinks forward in the movie, not even the decepticons. the bug just came off the main guy's wrist after the decepticons thought the auto bots left.why the hell did it come off and just left the guy that has been a major pain in the ass for the decepticons in the past decade? why didn't it stay on him or kill him? humans don't kill each other, even if it would be in their best interest. no, they let the hostage live and tell secrets so he can escape and ruin their plans. the robots somehow avoid killing humans until the last part of the movie the movie has some weird comical parts, some of them childish, and they don't kill any humans in the first half of the movie. but then there is a gay joke and at the end the human killing strangely begins, decepticons shoot people to ash and their skull rolls on the ground after they evaporated. so please mr bay, decide if you want a movie for the audience of spy kids,and don't show sexual/violent stuff, or make a scifi for adults, and don't make it retarded. they replaced Megan fox with this blonde chick, a significant portion of the movie was centered around her ass or boobs. this was actually a semi-valid reason to look at this terrible piece of a movie, but is this really justified in a sci-fi?. and btw she's 10 cm higher than the protagonist and she can't act. they keep fighting with idiotic weapons, optimus even has a flame ax or what the heck now. really. super high tech robots equipped with huge ass cannons fight like tom cruise in the last samurai with close combat weapons. optimus prime even had some kind of fight position at the start of one fight, like a martial artist, which looked really stupid.they couldn't think of a decent new villain, so they just repeated the one in the last episode. an ancient robot on top of a big building doing some kind of intergalactic mambo jumbo for half an hour. pretty lame, also what's up with robots having beard mustache hair out of metal, it isn't bad ass it's idioticstarscream has the ability to shoot a missile that utterly destroys a gigantic space ship full of auto bots. meanwhile throughout the movie the high tech super intelligent robots keep fighting with knives and swords. no comment the trend continues, new robots appear that resemble some ridiculous characters. we have a fat robot now, old ones with beard and male pattern baldness, troll doll robot, an eagle robot (that flies with metallic wings, not engines), megatron gets a hood and looks like some dark wanderer now, and my favorite, his lackey, the HUNCHBACK robot. yeah, that's right. megatron has the robot version of the hunchback of Notre dame. that sole character, that they attempted to take it seriously made the whole thing retarded, even without the countless other stupid characters and scenes of the movie that would only satisfy a mentally handicapped teenagerlaws of physics work differently in the movie. collapsing buildings/robots avoid humans, a metallic building structure hangs in the air in a ridiculous position, the scientist robot sucks a whole metal PLANET through a portal right next to earth and nothing happens (and btw first the summoning is interrupted and there is a planet cut in half near earth, with a plainly cut surface at the intersection, and then the summoning is restored and it CONTINUES to come out of the portal.). somebody before this planet-portal scene mentions that they wanna make the humans slaves to rebuild the planet.later, robots are slaying humans left and right, killing everyone. that's clever, killing your slaves full of idiotic clichés like the grand American speech of the commander to talk soldiers into impossible mission, "we only need one shot", etc, really anyone finds these cheap and badthe protagonist's parents are so annoying, they make you wanna kill the writer of the script slowly and painfully-etc etccould go on for about 3 pages... really, don't watch this movie if you want yourself good. visuals make it a worthy 2/10
__label__2 OK, let's be fair to this movie. The special effects were great -- assuming you can suspend your belief in physics long enough to enjoy them. The rest of this movie was awful. The product placements for Lenovo, Cisco, Waste Management and Chevy Impala were overwhelming. There was a product placed in almost every scene, and the sheer SIZE of the logo overshadowed most scenes. It was brutal, even for Michael Bay. And the leading woman (I refuse to look her name up for this review) - the giant implants she had in her lips gave her that permanent "duck- lip" look. Gross. It's sad to see so much of Hollywood's money go to tripe like this. There must be better things to fund. 2/10, and all of the "2" is special effects.
__label__2 If I may caveat this review first. You know your children better than I do, and will know if they are able to handle the content of this movie.First, I don't feel this movie was well marketed. In fact, I found it misleading. I think they presented it as a typical child friendly animated movie with a goofy looking green dinosaur and his silly companion (human/dog) on an adventure. Certainly, Pixar films often include content that is oriented to older audience members, but have maintained a balance that appeals to all ages.The Good Dinosaur, however, fails at this. It is a surprisingly violent movie, and not a cartoonish violence. There is a flash flood that kills a character within the first 30 minutes, and a flashback later in the movie, with a second flood in the finale. It isn't unusual for the character of any animated film to undergo a trauma (e.g. the Lion King), but whereas those maintain an animated feel, the flash flood was very realistic. The whole movie is a strange contrast between the cartoonish green dino and a very realistic natural environment. The visuals are impressive to be honest. My son (6) found the flash flood and the thunderstorms to be terrifying, combined with the loud sound effects and darkened theater. There were also the "bad dinosaurs" that demolished a little furry mammal, and fought over the carcass. And a strange triceratops that tried to name the human/dog character by calling it "murderer" and other violent names. It was really bizarre.So as a parent, I give it 2 stars, because it was not age appropriate for younger kids, and I don't think there has been sufficient warning about the content of this film. I guess I can't let Pixar just slide by given its past work, and should try and find out more about their films before going. As I say at the start, your kid may not be bothered by the elements in the movie, and certainly older ones will be better able. If your kid has a fear of natural disasters, def. skip it.As an audience member, I might give it 5 stars. Beyond the really impressive natural landscapes they have created, the story is quite boring. It is a traditional, boy on adventure finding himself style movie. It has been done so many times before, and better.
__label__2 I have just learned that the Oscar gave them the Best Animated Feature at the 85th annual Academy Awards, and I must say that this fact has left me dubious of the award's credibility. I don't understand what exactly was so "Brave" about Merida in this film. She is focused on only herself throughout the story. "It's not my fault that mother turned into a bear!" "Oh my silly brothers turning into bears as well!" - all this is the result of her selfishness. She is not apologetic to her poor mother at all, and all she does throughout the film is to complain and whine while scurrying around, trying to make things back in place. When her father the King, unknowing of the truth, tries to kill her mother, Merida suddenly turns into a self-proclaimed heroine by telling him that she "won't allow him to kill my mother!". There is no depth nor growth in Merida till the very end, as she continues to focus her abilities in getting her way. Also, regarding the artwork, there is too much focus on Merida's hair. Her hair bouncing about while she is riding the horse. Her hair blowing in the wind. Yes I admit, the technique is spectacular, but with such a shallow and petty story, one can't help but wonder if Disney couldn't have focused more on the story rather than the silly bouncy hair. On the whole, a disappointment.
__label__2 In this review, I'm criticizing the storytelling craft of the film and am assuming a complete knowledge of the story. So this review definitely has spoilers. Don't let a crusty reviewer spoil your fun.OK--we need to tell the Pixar people they should have a script before they start their projects. This movie had every sign of having been made up as it went along.The story sets the viewer up for a tale of a young warrior--and does a very nice job of it. The early scenes in which we meet the heroine were the best part of the movie.Yes, I liked her, too.But the plot wobbles, then veers off eccentrically, mutating into some sort of comedy about being turned into a bear.This might work if the character being transformed were one we could identify with. But it is the mother--in effect the villain of the story--who becomes the bear, and we are invited to enjoy comedic shtick--beautifully realized by the artists involved, one must say--of a person turned into a bear.To speak bluntly: they should not have gone with bears at all, much less someone being transformed into a bear. As I say, we were set up for the tale of a young warrior, and we got this weird shtick.There should have been a character to balance the girl--another warrior or something like that. I say this because the movie itself seems to set us up for that.The climax involves the father--who, like all the other characters in the movie, has only one attribute--and he becomes a supremely idiotic and menacing figure at the end, which strikes me as more bad storytelling.Why does Hollywood always think it can get along without writers? Sometimes it works; sometimes we get these strange concoctions.The result is a very odd tale indeed--a sort of shaggy bear story--whose import seems to be that you can get out of responsibilities by pulling a dirty trick on your mother. With that message, should you let your kids see this? (Just kidding.)
__label__2 A group of amateur actors gathers in a film studio to parody the nineteen sixties TV-series "Star Trek". The actors make jokes that are hilariously funny. Then they go somewhere and there are a lot of explosions. The enemies are ugly, so it's OK to kill them. After 122 minutes the film ends.
__label__2 I stopped watching this movie after half an hour. This is not Star Trek. Not even close. If you want to make a fun movie about space and lasers and people jumping around like bunnies on LSD just make another Guardians of the galaxy movie. (Wich was a greate movie by the way)Star Trek is about interesting SF concepts and space phenomena, interstellar politics, social interaction with alien races and now and then a space battle. This whole new series of parallel universe Star Trek movies is just a cheap ripoff of one of the best franchises ever made. They cannibalized it for fast profit and killed their long term profit.Even if you would have wanted to bring a bit more action to a new series of Star Trek movies there would have been a more enjoyable way to do this. What people are waiting for decades is the untold story of the Klingon wars. A new series about the Klingon wars would have been the most profitable thing that would have been ever created and all fans would have loved it.Instead they just made a remake of Captain Kirks Star Trek and killed his character. RIP Captain Kirk and RIP Star Trek franchise.
__label__2 What a waste of time more or less! This movie was by far the worst of all three in the series. Jackie seems to be nothing more than a tired old man and Chris tucker seems to have no glow in his comments or acting. They both seem to be "just in it for the money"I really hope this will be the last Rush Hour film, the first and second was both really really enjoyable with fun comments, good comedy and good action scenes this third installment has nothing of it.For some good Jackie action stick with his older films and those made in Hong Kong, for Chris tucker films watch any other film he's in besides this one.
__label__2 Okay, I've not seen either of the first two Rush Hour films, so don't have that direct yardstick to compare them to, but I have seen a good number of action comedies over the years and this one added absolutely nothing; in fact, it was damned close to reducing my enjoyment of the whole genre. Why? Well, aside from the lack of originality, there was nothing to keep you interested in these characters - Jackie Chan's was a mere cipher, which is kind of okay in this kind of film if the plot makes up for it, which it didn't here, but worse of all, Chris Tucker's was just a dick, a total moron, and not even an endearing one - he didn't have the moves, and neither did Jackie, so what was the point? Now, if the movie had been shot well, so you could appreciate the artistry of some of the action, that too would have been a redeeming feature, but it was all too fake and uninvolving. In summary, the movie was mind-numbing and not fun to watch. And I had wanted to really like it, too; I just couldn't.H_J
__label__2 The 2012 idea offered a great opportunity to make a true global disaster movie. The plot is imbecile. The characters are black and white. Typical stereotyping. Except for the White House staff. They are, of course, morally pure. The effects are good, but there are very few scenes with actual destruction and hi-tech effects. If the movie were an hour shorter,it would have been better and the story would be more fluent. The personal relationships took most of the suspense out of the movie. The dialogues are idiotic and simply annoying. Nobody in the Universe would talk like those pathetic characters in a global meltdown.The film is full of standard characters. Everything is so predictable. The main characters miraculously survive disasters, land in high mountains and get saved in the last millisecond. 20-30 minutes of superior effects cannot compensate for shallow story and unrealistic characters.
__label__2 There is now a long, grand history of disaster films in Hollywood. The best of the lot have combined suspense with cutting-edge effects to keep your adrenaline pumping. The worst combine cheesy CGI with shallow characters whose deaths won't affect you much.Here's 2012, summed up: Look, some recognizable landmark! Kablam! Look, a giant wave! Wooo! Do our intrepid Good Guys have enough time to outrun the imploding planet and foil a plot to save only the pretty, rich people? Probably! It's pretty clear what happened to bring us to this point. Roland Emmerich, who's made such cinematic classics as Independence Day, The Patriot, Godzilla, and The Day after Tomorrow, was asked if he wanted a quintillion billion bazillion dollars to make a movie about the end of the world, and he said sure. Then he took parts of each movie's script, filmed them mostly with CGI, and pocketed the rest. Viola! Greatest movie! (A quick break to sum up the plot. Apparently, the sun and the planets have all aligned with the center of the galaxy, which winds up causing the Earth's crust to break up, which then causes the tectonic plates to shift. Mass hysteria! Dogs and cats, living together! The End.) See, there are two ways Emmerich could have gone with this movie. He could have given us characters to follow whom we cared a little about, thus involving us in their plights, and mixed in some convincing special effects. Or he could have said, "The heck with the characters, give me blowy-uppy thingys." This sometimes works: See Independence Day, a movie that made me feel pretty good when I left the theater after seeing it but that ultimately, frankly, was pretty bad.Emmerich chose the latter. Which would have been fine, but the effects themselves are wildly unrealistic and often take so long to set up that you completely notice how godawful they really are. For example – and if you've seen the trailer, this is in there – there's a scene in which the Sistine Chapel falls, crushing thousands of spectators. Because the toppling is so slow to complete, it becomes painfully obvious that it's just a film running on a screen behind people running away. Sad and unintentionally hilarious.And you can forget about the plot, really, because most of it makes no sense anyway and would happen only in a Big Movie like this. Of COURSE John Cusack is divorced from his hot, bitchy wife (Amanda Peet) and of COURSE she's hooking up with a plastic surgeon who of COURSE winds up having had some flying lessons that of COURSE will save them all and of COURSE Cusack's young son will somehow save the day as well and of COURSE there is a Russian businessman who used to be a boxing legend and of COURSE he punches someone out. And of COURSE people say "My God!" a lot, because that's what people do in crappy disaster films. And of COURSE the president is black, because in Hollywood black people get to be president only if disaster is a-coming.At least the acting isn't horrible. Because everyone just runs from place to place in an effort to escape the horror, there aren't any subtle, low-key scenes that would allow good actors to flourish. Cusack is good in general, but what the heck is he doing in here? He's usually so good at picking projects, and he chose this? Willingly? Oliver Platt plays the kind of role that Bruce McGill typically gets, the hamhanded, I'm-in-charge, Al-Haig-like politician. I can't even remember his title. Danny Glover gets to be president and does get the best dialog in the film, even if his role isn't a big one. Woody Harrelson, as a crazed DJ deep in Yellowstone is also a lot of fun, although he's not the kind of guy you'd want to sit next to on a transatlantic flight.Final verdict: Yikes. Yikes, yikes, and yikes. If you dare watch this travesty, you might find yourself laughing hysterically at things – and this is important – that were not meant to be funny. If that's your thing, this is your movie. I managed to see this as a matinée, so I'm not out the $10-$15 that some people are right now, so at least I got that going for me. Best advice: Watch it for free at home on a big-screen TV to fully appreciate the magnitude of suck.
__label__2 I've said it once, and I'll say it again, SPECIAL EFFECTS DO NOT MAKE A GOOD MOVIE. Obviously the director, producer, and everyone involved in making the movie didn't know that. This is what too many of those directors out there think a movie is. They are all wrong. May I also say that I'm disappointed in the people who wrote good reviews for this movie. Let me explain. First of all, the acting was terrible. I loved Liam James (mostly because he is in Psych, the best TV show ever) and the little girl was adorable and the crazy guy who had that radio station in Yellowstone National Park was fun to watch, but other then those three, all the other characters were just plain boring to watch. Also note that I don't even remember half the characters' names. Anyway, the actors' facial expressions weren't very convincing, and the way they delivered their lines was robotic. Another thing, the characters were not memorable, and it was hard to connect with them. I didn't care about the characters who died at all, because I felt no connection with them at all. Second of all, the situations the characters were in were absolutely ridiculous! One minor character in the beginning calls another character, talks to them about something that has nothing to do with the plot that I could tell, and his car randomly blows up. It had nothing to do with the story, and was completely unnecessary to see. At another point, one major character is stuck in a bus looking for a map (of something that wasn't explained very well) and the back of the bus is on fire because a meteor hit the back. A crevice opens up on the ground and the bus falls into it backwards. The family all think he's dead, until he climbs back out of the crevice with barely a scratch on him. Totally ridiculous. In another scene, the family is driving their car crazily through the streets that started undulating and heaving upward. Thousands of crevices open up, and buildings are falling everywhere. The car crashes into stuff, and even flies over a huge crack on the ground. After this chase, the car is crushed and the doors fall off, but the people inside are unhurt, not even shaken at least. Good Grief. Third of all, for a movie with explosions and disaster scenes, it sure had slow, dull moments. There was too much of "Should we run toward or away from the danger?" and "Should we rescue the important people only, or everybody?" I wanted to yell at the screen, "JUST RUN, ALREADY!!!" Also, they focused too much on the main family in the movie. I sat through too many scenes where they are just doing normal, boring stuff, like talking about the whole divorce thing that must have been going on (but it wasn't important at all to the plot). Last of all, this movie, like too many movies these days, is a showcase of all the fancy, realistic (well, not really) wonders that can be produced by modern computer technology. The only reason I sat through the movie was so I could see buildings crumble and collapse, volcanoes explode, and huge tsunamis crash onto millions of screaming people. I didn't care for any of the characters, as I've said before. When characters died, I felt no sympathy. I didn't even think, "that's too bad". I just said to myself, "Okay, is this thing over yet?" Two good things about 2012: The action scenes were mildly thrilling (note: I only said MILDLY thrilling) and it didn't end like Knowing did (with ALIENS). Don't bother spending twelve bucks on this disaster of a movie (Hahahaha). You're better off staying FAR AWAY from it.
__label__2 Jupiter Ascending, a film that deals with subjects that I'm sure a millennia old advanced species would have no interest in, such as wealth, materialism, physical appearances and girl crushes. A totally shallow film with not a single redeeming feature. The Wachowskis should be ashamed of themselves. It was a good job we had a gift certificate because if we had spent the full £20 on the film I would have been mortified. I walked out before the end of the film as I didn't care the slightest about the fate of any of the characters and it was pretty obvious that the ending would be a complete happy ending cliché. These sorts of films make me want to give up on the modern film industry, they only spew out high budget garbage to appease the idiots. Excuse me while I go watch some Hitchcock or something. Urgh.
__label__2 Visually, this film looked like it was trying to be a live action version of the Disney animated feature, down to young Tarzan's dreadlocks and Jane's yellow dress. This was easily the best thing the film had going for it.If there were live animals used in this film, I missed them, because I was so busy noticing how absolutely fake the CGI animals (and vine-swinging Tarzan) looked. Even the single blue butterfly that alighted on Jane's shoulder was obviously fake. At one point, even the green lighting reflecting off the green screen used to shoot the film is visible on Skarsgard and Samuel L Jackson.The villain, Rom, is comically bad. Showing the respect for religion that has become fashionable in Hollywood, Rom constantly carries a crucifix with him, made of spider silk and inexplicably strong. He uses this not for prayer, but to choke victims (and Tarzan) as necessary. There is of course a joke about priests and abuse, which will likely be offensive to Catholics (I am not.)The motivation of the chieftain that deals with Rom to lure Tarzan back to the jungle from London so that he can kill him is undeveloped and secretive, until the end, at which point it is resolved rather easily. You'd think that in years of knowing each other, Tarzan and the chief would've had an opportunity to discuss their grievances with one another, but apparently not.By my clock, it took an hour and 50 minutes to get to the first iconic Tarzan yell, a wimpy holler that would've been better performed by Carol Burnett. The yell is a trademark, and it was glaringly absent.Tarzan and his crew -- apes and men both -- swing through the trees in several scenes that suddenly make similar moments in Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull appear more believable. These were not thrilling moments, but were comical and bad!In the movie's climactic scene, Tarzan -- who has nearly superhuman strength -- is snared by Rom with his nearly unbreakable crucifix. Unable to free himself with his hands, and somehow unable to fight off the frail and thin Rom, Tarzan nearly passes out from lack of oxygen until ... he SWALLOWS. This action, just enough extra muscle power from a weakening Tarzan, is enough to break Rom's beads, and Tarzan is suddenly free and able to fight! I laughed out loud! Tarzan, one would think, would make short work of Rom thereafter, but this is no Johnny Wisemuller Tarzan, and there are not moral lessons to be learned. Instead, Rom is left to the aggressive CGI crocodiles, who deliver the death bites.There's simply nothing redeeming about this film, and the story, special effects, plot, writing, and acting are all second rate. The title, the Legend of Tarzan is at least appropriate, because the laughs are legendary. It's unfortunate that Mystery Science Theatre 3000 is no longer in production, because this film is ripe for ribbing by that crew.
__label__2 Another X-Men movie.. and again, not much of anything happens. There is a plot, yes, but it is poorly written and lacks substance/soul/meaning. The attitude of "I don't care" is what I came out with after seeing this movie. Instead of having a soul, it feels like a bunch of things put together in order to make money. You see characters, but aside from Quicksilver, which felt shoved in, no one really has an attempt at an arc.--- SPOILERS!!An hour into the movie, it SEEMS like something will happen. Two hours into the movie, they end the threat of Apocalypse. The end. Apocalypse wasted. I have several other issues with this movie, 1) Nightcrawler's teleportation is stopped by electricity? 2) Apocalypse access the internet by touching a TV. Yes yes, it is not the internet, but it is such a concept. Anyway, Apocalypse learns all the languages this way and sees the atrocities of humanity. What kind of powers did he have? He came from the beginning of mankind, and then jumps to the "present" where he magically has a mutant power that lets him access "technology". Anyway, awful! Reading minds would have been better. 3) The Angel transformation scene is simply stupid.. rock music, alcohol, a cool pose.. Apocalypse's way of "convincing" others into joining him is as bad. He says "come with me" and that's it. What does he want? To kill all! Sure, I'll join. 4) Apocalypsis takes Magneto to his conncentration camp (which is intact after who knows how many years) and somehow knows about Magneto's past for some reason. Knows his name, knows how he feels. 5) X-Men insults the Star Wars trilogy, calling the third (Return of the Jedi) as the worst one. Why? 6) Oh yes, Magneto lost everything, again. For some reason, he hasn't learned his lesson, and continues to hang out with women and have children. Then they get killed and he blames everyone! 7) Stan Lee's cameo is.. nothing. Him looking at the sky as a civilian. 8) Somehow, aside from being somewhat telepathic, or so I understood, Apocalypsis can also teleport for some reason. But then he states he needs Xavier's powers! So, which is it? Do you have all powers or don't? If you can do most of what it is shown you can do, why do you need 4 horsemen, or other mutants? 9) Quicksilver's scene, while awesome, is super coincidental. No reason why he should have saved everyone from an exploding mansion. He isn't in super speed 100% of the time! Nor he knows the place is exploding! Yet he walks right to the center of the mansion and sees and rescues everyone. Ugh. 10) So, a "psychic event" destroyed all the world's nukes, and Colonel Stryker tracked the source to Xavier's mansion.... suuuuure. 11) Wolverine shows up and kills people, retconing his origin. He then runs in the snow. Fine. There is no real "Berserker Rage". Anyway, sucks and unnecessary. 12) Psylocke uses a whip to fight, instead of her psyonich blades. 13) Magneto goes all-out-destructive with little reason.. but wait, he becomes good with even less. 14) Mystique turns into Psylocke and for some reason she has a blade. It was a "twist", if you can call it that. This scene, where she attempted to kill Apocalypse is the closes the writer could come close to a surprise situation. 15) Apocalypse turns big, yes, in a mind sequence. Looks bad by the way. Apocalypse does little to no shifting actions. He remains as seen in the pictures. 16) Quicksilver DOESN'T tell Magneto he is his father. The reason? There isn't one.They said Lawrence didn't do much in the movie, that it was the kids that did.. but ultimately, nobody really does anything. The fights are not even 2% of the movie, it's mostly talk (some bad lines, nothing mind bending). Mutants underused, which is the biggest let down. The movie is a lot of nothing! Oh, and the X-men have Sentinels now, for some reason.. Lots of stuff, lots of nothing. Not even a good waste of time.
__label__2 I was able to catch this movie at a test screening in California while i was on vacation and its not much of a film. Its the same story as the previous ones and most of the stuff in the movie were taken from them as well. I love Brendan Fraser but he didn't look happy to be there and with how the story was set up, you can't blame him for looking miserable. He has no chemistry with Maria Bello, who was just awful (She's no Rachel Weisz, that's for damn sure.) and he has even less chemistry with his own son played by Luke Ford, who has the charisma and the charm of a brick, not to mention the fact that he looks just as old as both Fraser and Bello. Fraser has more chemistry with John Hannah, who is a welcome distraction from the lousiness of the film. The movie itself is just a flat headed mess of bad visual effects with no soul. Jet Li lacks the menacing presence of Arnold Vosloo from the previous films but that problem is more than less on the shoulders of the director, who was in my opinion more concern with the style of the film than any substance it could have had and because of that, Jet Li and most of the cast got the short end of the stick and it shows.They should have ended it with the second film but instead, we have a movie that manages to make even "The Scorpion King" look as good as Iron Man.
__label__2 This film is difficult to watch, because Maria Bello's terrible accent and acting grate on you so much. She just simply is NOT Evie. Rachel Weisz was never going to be easy to replace and it should probably not have been attempted. The on-screen chemistry between Weisz and Fraser was one of the best things about the first 2 films. Bello cannot fill her shoes. Whoever cast her should be shot! Unfortunately, I find the son a bit annoying too - it seems like his character is being moulded into a big, bouncing puppy version of Brendan Fraser - and he seems to have inexplicably turned into a "true blue" American...Weird. However, I think the Yetis are great -definitely the best characters in the whole film. :-D
__label__2 I don't get the ratings here. This is a cut and dry poorly made movie and fans of the DC universe deserve better. I don't normally post my reviews here. But I have to share my take on this movie because it just wasn't good. I didn't even have to go into spoilers to show how terrible it is. Movie goers shouldn't mindlessly consume these films. Christopher Nolan set a high bar, but producers and studios need to step messing with auteurs and maybe we can get a quality DC movie:There is nothing in Suicide Squad that shows any hope that an auteur filmmaker can do anything distinctive with the current cash cow of the Hollywood machine: the super hero movie. What Christopher Nolan once made his own has devolved into a predictable pastiche whose charms should be wearing thin on audiences. It doesn't help that the movie is also an example of how bad one of these films can be when it becomes watered down and designed to refrain from shaking up anything in the so-called DC Universe. Suicide Squad, a PG-13 film, was supposed to be DC's entry to rival Marvel's R-rated Deadpool. Even though Deadpool had its own problems as a self-aware action movie, it still had focus and a bravado that is nowhere to be found in Suicide Squad.Suicide Squad follows a group of villains with super powers released from prison as part of a government plan to protect the world from terrorists or whatever sign-of-the-times fear currently plaguing society (Zika?). Starring Will Smith as the hit man Deadshot and Margot Robbie as the Joker's manic girlfriend Harley Quinn, alongside several other less familiar DC baddies, these guys are supposed to be complex people who have long fallen from grace and are supposed to rise above to find their humanity and gain the audience's sympathy. But writer-director David Ayer tries so hard to take a safe route, you can see the gears trying to manipulate audience emotion, revealing the inherit problems of these comic book adaptations straining to catch up with decades of printed storytelling.You can't totally blame Ayer, who last gave moviegoers Fury, an incredibly strong and startling war movie featuring a better fleshed out motley crew of characters. The preciousness Hollywood has for its ongoing world building of interconnected comic book films creates such tight restrictions on storytelling that anything that might upset that world has no room to prosper. At one point, toward the end of Suicide Squad, one character asks another, "Shouldn't you be dead?" Of course not, this is the DC universe, and it's gotta be milked. That means no major players should be written off in one movie.The result of these storytelling restraints is a soulless kind of filmmaking hampered by pussyfooting. It's like a syrupy glaze that drowns out any possibility to shine above what has become a predictable pattern of storytelling. Characters dole out uninspired lines that play superficially to feelings, like, "Dad, I know you do bad things, but I still love you." Then there are the clichés, like "fight fire with fire." Sometimes the script inadvertently deflates the tension by spelling things out. Someone over a radio says, "Use extreme caution," and someone in the action responds, "I don't like this." But in case you miss that, someone else says, "I don't like it either." A kid playing with his action figures can come up with better chatter to establish tension....
__label__2 I just got back from the movie and have a few feelings about it. It started out solid enough, we get to know the characters/motivations/weaknesses. Yes it was hurried but necessary and stylish.Then things drastically started to go downhill. DC's answer to Samuel Jackson is the stony faced Amanda Waller. She decides she needs to get these people together in case of another meta-human attack and by doing so she instigates the attack itself.So now we are faced with the big bad enchantress who we know nothing about and really aren't that committed to as a movie baddie. But that's OK... the bad guys aren't that important if our protagonists have good charisma with each other on screen. Here was my biggest issue. They just don't.The enemy ends up being a barrage of blackberry-headed minions and it begins to feel like an annoying video game. Step into a room, kill all bad guys, move on to the next room and repeat. To add insult to injury Rick Flagg even gets dragged away twice and has to be rescued like those ridiculous 'keep them alive' missions in video games. The action feels more suited to a war movie than to a comic book movie (perhaps the directors past is showing here)I wanted to like this movie, I wanted to like the characters but there were points where the dialogue was just so bad. TWICE, characters randomly hit on Katana to which she does not respond. It's not funny. TWICE everyone ends up ogling Harley Quinn. The attempts at humor in the movie were weak at best. Killer Croc utters so many pointless one liner's that are neither funny nor useful. It just didn't work. You want humor? When the characters are being shown their wildest dreams, give us a ridiculous seen with Boomerang. Give us some funny scenes with Diablo and stop saying 'esse' at him.I loved the romance with Joker and Harley.. give us more of that, don't squeeze the joker into a bunch of different personas.The bar scene was lovely, you felt the characters come close to something like a bond. Don't give us that at the end... give us that at the start of the movie, make us actually feel like these people mesh together well. They call themselves a family at the end but they have done nothing to merit that.Diablo had a cool scene at the end and Will Smith played an amazing Deadshot but I feel Rick Flag was just badly cast. I never really cared for the Rick and Deadshot scenes together on screen... It never felt like it really worked. Overall, I'll still watch DC movies, but I do feel like they are missing something that the Marvel counterpart has got right. Maybe it's heart, maybe Marvel just have more practice but I hope DC can redeem themselves next year.
__label__2 The whole plot of the movie was a mess. It really confused me what all the characters in the film was fighting for, I mean there was no real goal of the movie for the first 70% of the time. Then they set up the story in a way where the friend turns into the foe, and those friends are now facing this foe as their primary enemy and not the one it was shown at the beginning of the movie. I think the whole script was written by a total non professional guy who needs to again go through the basic levels of a film school. This movie made DC lose its fame towards its fans and I hope they bounce back in their next show. Thank you
__label__2 Honestly one of the two most disappointing movies I have ever seen (the other being Big Top Pee Wee). Let me first state that I was really looking forward to this movie. I really liked Bruce Almighty (part one). I also thought the idea of having the sequel being centered around the Noah story was a strong idea. I felt you bring back Steve Carrell and bring back Morgan Freeman. That is was an interesting way to get by without Jim Carrey. Afterall Steve Carrell is a rising Hollywood starthe next Jim Carrey or Will Farrell. I saw the clips of Steve with his beard and Noah get upthe visual looked funny to me. I thought there was room for some funny scenes with Animals.Honestly I was wrong dead wrong. The only animal getting really any valuable screen time were the Baboonsthe animals were hardy in it. I think most were just stage dressing done with CGI. Honestly the script for this movie needed a total overhaul. You will watch this movie and think you are being treated like you are some kind of moron. The worse thing about this movie though is it is not funnyprobably the directors fault because everything that should be funny just isn't.Again as for the script, weird things start happening to Evan. And Evan rather than try to convince people that something strange is going on.just seems fine with everyone thinking he is crazy. A good example is one morning Evan wakes up with a beard. He tries to shave the beard. In second the beard grows right back. So rather than show his wife, family, and friends this.he simply lets them think he is crazy. I mean seriously, if some man you knew grew a full beard overnight (or really in one second) would you not think something strange is happeninginstead people think Evan is crazy. Then, animals following Evan around everywhere he goesin pairs. But rather than thinking something strange is going oneveryone thinks Evan is crazy.look people you can see the animals follow Evan aroundhe does not have a leash on. It is one thing after another that leaves you going  HELLO SCRIPT WRITERS ARE YOU FIVE YEARS OLD! So again, this movie was painfully bad. I really feel I needed to write a review. About 30 minutes into this I was going.wow I am so bummed.I looked forward to this movie..and unfortunately it was total crap. Don't waste your time on it. This movie was rumored to cost like $200 Million to makelet them lose money on it because the people deserve better than to be treated like total morons. I could not be more disappointed.
__label__2 I actually said that out-loud at the advanced screening I attended for this movie. This is about as safe a comedy as you can find. Even the lone child in the audience of 50 was bored by this disappointment. I'm not quite sure what the other reviewers of this movie saw, but they are obviously brain washed. The only redeemable quality of this movie was its 88 minute length. Everything was rushed, the dialog was laughably bad, and the slap-stick humor didn't work. The following scene sums up this movie perfectly: God is explaining to Evan that anyone can change the world with one act of random kindness - he then writes 'ARK' into the sand, "ACTS of RANDOM KINDNESS", YUCK!!!!!
__label__2 I saw this movie because my friends wanted to see a "fun" movie. "Evan" did not deliver. It was so stupid that I left with a throbbing headache and the suspicion that I'd done more brain damage than I could with a night of heavy drinking. Stupid dancing and fecal matter passed for running gags in this tripe. Half the ideas and plots were witlessly recycled from vastly superior films. And at the end of the day, the entire plot made no sense, even in a mystical, mysterious context. I thought I'd be glad to support Steve Carell's box office cred, but I had no idea what inanity I'd be supporting. Everyone involved, especially Carell, should be thoroughly ashamed of themselves and do penance. As should I, really, for going against my instinct and giving this rubbish a chance.
__label__2 GI JOE (2009) had far too many explosions and loud sound effects, and not enough coherent believable story. Okay, I know it's a comic book but it still has to be believable. The plot itself was okay. The whole thing about the nano-mites was intriguing. It was a kick-butt cool weapon, but the whole storyline of implanting the nano-mites inside humans made it dumb. They always take these plots too far till they become stupid and contrived. The acting was just average, at times laughable.The best part about it, in my opinion, was Snake Eyes fighting Storm Shadow. Those were the two best characters. I wish there had been more of that going on. The two lead girls were nice for eye candy on screen, but little more.
__label__2 This movie stinks. Scares the hell out of kids. Characters are way too scary for little ones. And its just no way near the fun the original was. Awful singing by Christopher Walken, mediocre acting at best or I guess voice over. Just lousy. Maybe some adults who have never seen the original may care for this, but OMG this is just trash. The Director has no idea what a Disney movie is. Disney is rolling over in his grave after this one was released. Again, if you have kids under 10, they will be scared the way the characters are portrayed. Don't waster your time or dollars. Disney is now relying or remakes of classics that are all garbage to make money. Just buy the original ones when the movies were good.
__label__2 I can't tell you how disappointed I was with this movie , I don't even know where to start. First the mowgli kid is so annoying , he's too cheesy, too americanised. This is supposed to be a kid that's lived his life on the jungle , yet he acts nothing like that . They could have made the accent more neutral, made his walking more animal like , and made him less annoying. Again in the cartoon Baloo is so fun and lovable , he just isn't likable in the movie , I'm not drawn to him, and he doesn't have the connection with mowgli that he has in the cartoon, there's no emotion in the movie and no emotional connection between the characters, other than the cheesy wolf line " you'll always be my son"I was really expecting the movie to relive my childhood , to be quite magical but Instead it was just like a soulless cgi show with annoying characters and annoying voices , too americanised with blue coming out with things like " my bad". Kipling will be turning in his grave.The movie is totally soulless and to add to the total lack of emotion in the film it doesn't even end with mowgli going back to the village. It just ends with them all sat up a tree living happily ever after.The very worse thing about the movie is the music and the songs. I can't believe how bad and soulless they are , the bare necessity's sounds like some drunken old man on his death bed is singing it and the background music is poor , and the other song " I want to be like you " was totally ruined too. No rhythm , no melody , just dull. It was like the film makers were scared to have fun with the movie , they were scared to bring any emotion or sense of childhood into the movie and instead just concentrated on cgi. I will never watch the movie again and will always stick to the cartoon. A very painful watch .
__label__2 We've hit a point of no return in terms of remakes: the recent announcement of yet another Indiana Jones film, Disney's intention to produce a new Star Wars film every year, and a mooted reboot of Peter and Elliot the Dragon (!) go a long way to showing the complete inspirational bankruptcy of blockbuster filmmaking. And in case that picture isn't sharp enough for you, along comes Jungle Book to crystallize the issue.The original is among Disney's most perfect creations, and simply reissuing it in theaters might have accomplished what the present abomination did financially, without any of the wasted effort. What we have here is a deconstruction of the original, where every spin on an old idea misses the mark and every new "idea" turns out to be pointless and predictable.In true flop-fashion, the problems can be traced to before a camera was even unleashed: the casting becomes and end unto itself, despite a weird mismatch between voice and animal or performance. That blend manages to be less convincing than Homeward Bound (and they used real critters). Ben Kingsley barely pulls off Baghera, but Murray and especially Christopher Walken are embarrassing, especially during the latter's cringe- worthy rendition of "I Wanna Be Like You". The real disappointment is poor young Neel Sethi as Mowgli, who is hung out to dry, too often betraying the digital fakery around him.The throwback moments are mostly appalling, and the additions, all padding, are yawn- inducing: King Louie has a huge temple? Of course it will crumble during a by-the- numbers chase scene, with none of the humor of the original. The film also awkwardly acknowledges its own pointlessness: since the only way to "improve" on the original is to make everything faster, louder and bigger, serpent Ka is bigger than even Anaconda's titular joke was, and Louie could take King Kong in a fight, while the climactic jungle fire setting the scene for Mowgli's showdown with Khan could probably, in this incarnation, be visible from space.So there you have it, a tale full of sound and fury, told by idiots etc, as the poet said. White noise. Meanwhile, it hardly registers as a blemish on a more recent poet, original author Rudyard Kipling, who would simply be appalled.
__label__2 If you are an aficionado of Rudyard Kipling, don't go anywhere near this infuriating mish-mash of sentiment and CGI bignoting. It is little more than a vehicle for Bill Murray, who lazily reprises his Garfield characterization - oddly, since he is on record as saying that the greedy cat was the biggest mistake of his career. Sorry, Mr. Murray - turning a smartassed fat feline into a smartassed blimp of a bear doesn't redeem you in any way.The Disney cartoon has remained popular through the years because it doesn't pretend to be anything other than family entertainment with a good deal of humour and memorable songs, loosely based on the stories. This new effort cynically rips off the best-loved songs from the cartoon while masquerading pompously as the original - but it in fact twists the story of Mowgli yet again, taking it even further away from Kipling's uplifting tale of courage, family and friendship. Almost every element of this reworking differs from Kipling's stories, leaving you asking yourself why the heck the writers couldn't have just renamed the characters and the movie and pretended they'd made it all up themselves. Then again, they wouldn't have been able to capitalize on the Disney version.Your kids will love it because it's full of cute animals, but I'd advise you spend the day with them at the zoo instead of wasting your time and money on this hokum.
__label__2 The few good things about this movie have all been done better in other movies.I went into this film with an open mind. The first thing I believed was that reviews had been too harsh on Kristen Stewart and I was willing to give her a chance. Bad call. Snow White's primary expression for most of the movie is a blank stare with her mouth hanging open. At one point when She is armored up she delivers what is supposed to be a rousing speech to the troops. Instead it was Kristen Stewart just shouting with no passion and certainly no inspiration. There is also no chemistry between Snow White and the Huntsman. In reality the only lead actor who shows any charisma and actual development is the evil queen. There is little to no development for any other characters, which manages to even drag down Chris Hemsworth's role as the Huntsman.While the movie did have decent special effects, they aren't enough to save the film and even they have been done better in other films. The "action" sequences are sparse and fairly generic. I was very disappointed with this film. It had potential, but a bad script and boring/non-existent acting on Stewart's part destroyed it. If you want an actual captivating fantasy film, you'd be far better off watching Lord of the Rings, Chronicles of Narnia, or even the most recent version of Alice in Wonderland. The movies listed actually have a good script and good acting along with good fight sequences and excellent special effects. There is simply nothing memorable about this rendition of Snow White.
__label__2 Very poor performance from Kristen Stewart. She keeps looking as if she is sitting on the toilet and doesn't convince nor captivate the audience in many scenes. At one point in the movie she gave the men a pep talk, one of the worst ever! Almost all her dialogues are poor and unconvincing. The only thing that kind of kept me in the audience were the funny dwarfs. Also the CGI was pretty nice. But the bottom line remains, acting is the most important and especially that of the leading role...Apart from Kristen, the other actors were OK, but unfortunately not enough to save the movie.All in all a big disappointment!
__label__2 Maleficent is the very first movie, in my long list of movies that I have seen, that I wanted to walk out of.Lets start with the positives. Angelina Jolie was incredible. She was beautiful, she was strong, and she executed Maleficent beautifully. Her relationship with Aurora was refreshing and.... Nice. The magical world was something that has been seen on movies like bridge to terabithia, but it was still beautiful and engaging.But all of this does not save the movie. I expected to walk in and see a movie similar to wicked, where we get a better understanding of the bad guy. Yes, us understanding the bad guy does not excuse what they have done, but we can see where they come from. In the musical Wicked (and even in the movie great and powerful Oz) we have sympathy for the character we previously viewed as the bad guy. We could see where she was coming from. In those adaptations nobody truly ended up becoming "the bad guy". Most were victims of circumstances. In Maleficent? It was ferngully/Avatar all over again. Magical people, good! Man, BAAAAAAD! Instead of giving depth to all the characters that previously were left rather flat and on the background on the original sleeping beauty, suddenly the king has been reduced to this one dimensional villain that created the evil Maleficent and later on becomes obsessed with killing her! He was given NO aspects that would make us have even the tiniest bit of sympathy, not the smallest bit of understanding. He was just a vile man that broke Maleficents heart, mutilated her, and cared only for power. Even when he tried to protect his daughter, it was made appear more like he was protecting his property rather than a person he loved. Yes, he graveled for her for a bit, begging Maleficent not to curse her, but that was it. The movie left all traces of the good of the humanity from it. OK, it had some of the good of humanity, but the only human that was portrayed as good was Aurora.The movie tried to portray the three fairies as the comic relief, but ended up just portraying them as idiots, incompetent selfish creatures. The fairies in the original Disney movie were clumsy and unused to taking care of a child, but they were like that because for the first time in their lives they could not rely on their magic to achieve things in life. If were as modern people were thrown in to the middle of the woods and had to do everything by hand, then yes, we would be as lost as they were. But they were given 16 years to evolve, to learn and to grow. But no. The fairies were not given even the smallest of story arc in this movie. They were creatures that switched sides when ever it benefited the movie.I mentioned before that I liked the relationship that Maleficent and Aurora had in the movie, but even that was shattered later on in the movie. The solution to the problem was not a surprise at all. It was taken straight out of Frozen. It was refreshing and incredible when Frozen did it, because it was the first time Disney did not use the age old solution of a man being the one delivering the kiss of "true love", but when the same solution, the same realization is done in a movie that came out within year of each other? It is boring and in no way exiting, it is in no way entertaining. We have learned NOTHING new. Is this Disney's new approach in relationship? Love between man and a woman is obsolete, but the love between girl (family kind of love, not lesbian, kids apparently can't handle that, and also, family excludes male family members at this moment as well, only women can feel true love!)is the strongest of all the loves in this world.In the end, the movie basically told the audience "yeah, the movie/story that has been told for decades is actually a propaganda, and I should know, because I am Queen Aurora, and I was there all along!" The original Sleeping Beauty was rather black and white, good VS.. Evil. When I walked in to the theatre I expected the lines to be blurred, to be thought "all stories have two sides, not all of our actions are blatantly good OR evil" but instead the writers and directors and what nots decided to make the line between good and evil even more visible. The good creatures are good no matter what they do, and the bad humans are bad and rotten all the way.In conclusion: The movie might have given some depth to a villain that previously had been left as a rather one dimensional character, but in exchange they created a new one dimensional villain, just switching the genders around. The worlds was beautiful and the lead actress was amazing, but even she could not save this rehash of a movie in the end.
__label__2 This movie is a complete joke, the only thing going for it is the visual effects, In the 1959 Disney classic Maleficent is the mistress of evil and she was perfect in that role but in this nonsense movie she is a good person? her name does not seem good at all!Also I want to write in some details why I did not like this movie and why the story was very weak in my opinion. First why is King Stefan evil? why did he send Aurora to live with the three fairies until she is 16? is he crazy? the curse stated that she will go into a sleep like death when she is 16 so why the hell will he send his daughter away all those years and never even visit her? he could have made her live with them until she is 16 and protected her in the castle or told the fairies to come and protect her on that day.and coming to the fairies they portray them as idiots! the good fairies are idiots? and Prince Philip is not the true love of Aurora? what nonsense! finally the motherly kiss of Maleficent lifts the curse? she put it on in the first place!and finally Maleficent kills Stefan (Aurora's father) and Aurora is happy about that? what the hell?Really a silly movie, I gave it 2/10 just because of the CGI which Hollywood seem to think that this will save all movies not good writing and casting!
__label__2 I had my doubts before, but now I am sure if it.Disney has sold out. Recently Disney has been releasing films that, whether the public chooses to acknowledge it or not, have been paint-by-numbers at best. Films like The Lone Ranger, Thor The Dark World, and Frozen. Yes, Frozen. It's the same Disney crap you've seen over and over, people. Don't get me wrong, I LOVE Disney. But not THIS Disney... one that would butcher one of its own beloved fairy tales to make a quick buck. Yes, you heard right. Disney did stoop that low. I should have known that this film would be garbage from the get-go when they hired Alice in Wonderland writer Melissa Woolverton to pen the screenplay and Alice in Wonderland production designer Robert Stromberg to direct (Are you sensing a pattern here?) Let's touch on that for a moment-- The Mouse House, in its infinite wisdom, got a PRODUCTION DESIGNER/VFX SUPERVISOR WHO HAD NEVER DIRECTED ANYTHING TO DIRECT THEIR $200 MILLION BLOCKBUSTER. As a result, Maleficent's beautiful visuals carry no weight, and the actors for the most part seem utterly lost. Because what the hell would a set designer know about directing actors? Even Angelina Jolie can't pull off her real emotional scenes because she is left to direct herself. What really sank this movie for me was Disney blatantly ripping themselves off and using the "true love" twist from Frozen. Literally THE EXACT SAME TWIST. I have no problem with Disney creating a strong independent heroine... but if you're going to do that, Don't have your heroine wear a skintight leather black cat suit in the climax of your movie! In short, Disney has definitely lost its magic, and it's going to be tough to get it back. Don't listen to the positive reviews. Remember how glowing Alice in Wonderland's were when it first came out? You have been warned.
__label__2 I want to write a different kind of review for this movie because every other bad review has already said most of what is so bad about it. My two star rating is for Andy Serkis alone, who I think is a true artist with everything he does!This review is a Spoiler from start to finish!Massive budget - check A reasonably good first movie of the franchise - check Andy Serkis - check Storyline - let's talk about that pointWriters sitting in a room to put together a "great storyline" for this sequel:We are set only 10 years after "The Rise" so..."What are the basics we need"?"Apes""Good. What else"?"Humans.""Sure, but maybe a few less. Let's face it, the Apes have to have a chance at fighting the humans. Say we kill off most humans on earth, leaving just hundreds left in smaller groups...but how?""A virus! A virus that was a result of complicated genetic....""Perfect! A virus! And we can say it had something to do with the Apes and so on! We need to keep it simple. Moving on. What else do we need?""A new nice guy...Oh, and maybe a couple of "actors" playing his family""What happened to James Franco? Never mind...a new nice guy then. What about more important things now like...we need a war. So, how do we give the Apes a chance against the technologically advanced humans? Should they be 'building' sophisticated weapons to challenge the humans?""One option would definitely be to have the humans create a massive arms depot and just have two idiots look after it. Oh, and maybe these two idiots could also just spend their time drinking and shooting for no reason. It would be easier to kill them off that way. This way the Apes would have access to lots of guns, which they know how to use, since...they are intelligent.""Awesome...but how do we explain the arms depot. Did I miss something about zombies or others human enemies in the outline?"Nope, just the virus. The humans aren't really aware of the Apes initially."Ok...arms depot it is.""How do we get things kicking off?""I'd say we need a human volatile and a monkey volatile.""Say no more...done""Anything else?"Explosions""I agree. That's it for today. We meet again next week to discuss the next sequel. Thank you for taking time of your well deserved luxury life style!"This is my first review of a movie. The enjoyment of writing this review made up for the 2-hour agony of watching an appallingly bad story line together with poor acting and terrible scripting. And most of all - a negligence to explain anything to the audience.
__label__2 I have been a fan of Planet of the Apes since I was a kid in the 70s. I was instantly in love. I read the books of the films when I could get them (you couldn't just pick up a movie back then. There was no video available). I avidly watched the TV show and I bought merchandise. I was besotted and have remained so. Maybe this has something to do with why nothing since has quite come close.Let's get the good stuff out of the way. The animation /CGI of the apes is phenomenal. They look real. The idea that humans had almost been annihilated by a deadly flu is a great plot device and better than the reason given in the original films (a plague killed cats and dogs so we brought apes in to replace them as pets and then to be servants). That's it. After that it's all down hill.The story is riddled with holes and left me asking why, why, why throughout the film and long after it had ended. Forgive me but I have to get them off my chest.This is 10 years since Rise and no humans have been seen for 2 years but there is a huge city just over the bridge. It's so close you can see it when the generator turns on the power and the lights come on. Hang on, they already had power anyway so the lights would already have been visible.The humans come to find the dam because they only have 2 weeks power left. Hey, great forward planning people.The man they bring who is the only person who knows about water power is a dick, such a badly drawn character but they need him. Then they dump him and get the power station working. Err how? Why do apes hunt stag? Why do they kill a bear after the way they have been treated? Don't they appreciate letting wild animals live in the wild? Why do the apes ride horses? Are these the naturally wild horses normally found in forests? Why does Caesar's son, Blue Eyes, side with Kobo the bonobo? When Kobo and his mates get the guns they have no problem in loading them and shooting them. Kobo is such a good shot he hits Caesar easily.When Blue Eye's goes to Caesar's house they all speak to him in English. When did he learn this? Caesar plops out the odd word now and again but surely he normally talks ape talk and sign language.After 10 years the camcorder still has battery life and works. It wasn't looted or smashed.Gary Oldman's character has no motivation for wanting a war.The humans have a "Tower" that strangely seems to be all scaffolding. Ideal if you're a bunch of monkeys and want a fight.Oldman set C4 around the tower - just above his own head. Erm that might just kill you when you detonate it. It did but it didn't kill our boring human hero who was standing there at the time.Caesar's other half, Cornelia, is very ill and needs antibiotics. She gets them and feels as right as rain by the end of the same day.Caesar after being shot is really weak from blood loss. Never mind. Give him 2 days and he will fight like he's on meth against Kobo Bonobo.There was more. So much more.On top of that it's too dark and too long.
__label__2 I would not call myself a huge Planet of the Apes fan. The first film is a classic, the rest of the original movies are average at best, and Tim Burton's film was a passable popcorn flick. However, it wasn't until 2011's Rise of the Planet of the Apes that my interest in the series really ignited. The film had an excellent story to tell about how an experimental Alzheimer's drug could lead to world takeover by super-intelligent apes. It was suspenseful, exciting, and a real thrill to watch. Plus, it had some great performances from James Franco, John Lithgow, and Andy Serkis as Caesar, the leader of the Apes. Rise was one of my favorite films of the year, and when I found out a sequel would be coming out, I was understandably excited. I awaited a bigger, more action-packed movie than Rise that would hopefully give me more of what I loved about its predecessor. Much to my chagrin, Dawn of the Planet of the Apes carries over none of the freshness or charm of Rise. Dawn is a fatally pompous, self-important, and generic slog through an uninspired planet of the apes.The movie is a post-apocalyptic story told both from the human and ape point-of-view. The apes do have a somewhat interesting story; particularly a dramatic betrayal between two ape leaders, Caesar, motion captured by Andy Serkis and the scarred bonobo Koba (Toby Kebbell). The human actors manage to convincingly pretend to be talking animals, but I fail to find anything really special in these motion capture performances. On the other side of the story are the human characters, and let's just get to the point, they have nothing remotely interesting to do, and not one of them is at all interesting as a character. Gary Oldman acts the Hell out of every scene he's in, but even his scenery-gnawing presence can't save the humans in this movie from feeling utterly dull and pointless. The post-apocalyptic story is as generic as it gets, pitting a band of survivors against the odds in a struggle to get power to the city. It is the type of broad "post-apocalyptic" story that seems like it was lifted straight from an episode of The Walking Dead. You would think there would be more imagination and ideas for a future where apes rule the world, but there is no such thing here. It is the same dilapidated cityscape and band of survivors schtick we see in every cheap zombie apocalypse movie/show nowadays. Thankfully, the apes take center stage, and while their story is more interesting than the humans', the seriousness of the whole thing is often laughable. It is basically Hamlet in digital monkey costumes. A lot has been said about the "performances" of Serkis and Kebbell, and yes, the digital makeup looks convincing. They move like apes, they talk like apes might talk, but what else can you say of what the actors bring? Grunting out dramatic dialogue with a stern look on your face is not what makes a good performance. Unfortunately, it seems it's enough to fool audiences into thinking it is. Watching Serkis and Kebbell, I couldn't help but feel like I was being presented an effect; like the actors were trying to show me how much they could act under the digital makeup. Even with cutting edge special effects and big action set pieces, Dawn of the Planet of the Apes was a crushing disappointment for me. The film had potential to takes us further into the ape-dominated world set up in Rise. Instead, the film coasts on the well-worn post-apocalyptic formula. Anything remotely interesting in Dawn of the Planet of the Apes is killed by the frustratingly pretentious tone. The tone of Dawn of the Planet of the Apes is relentlessly dark. Darkness is not a sin in itself, but director Matt Reeves lathers the drama and grittiness on so much that he forgets to entertain. Instead of simply taking the story seriously, the film takes itself seriously. Here is a group of people (Reeves, Serkis, etc.) who "know" that the movie they are making is an important Hollywood milestone. That is never good.That is the problem with the movie. It thinks it is a significant, world-changing drama about the nature of man, when in fact it is not. It's a glorified Last of Us ripoff, masquerading as a Shakespearian tragedy. The tone never wavers from the absolute dead serious. It's a shame because I loved the balance in tone that the Wyatt's Rise of the Planet of the Apes had. It was dark and scary, but it had real heart and the action was actually fun. I might not be the biggest apes fan, but what appeals to me about the series is its imagination, satire, and thrills, not wannabe high-brow crap like Dawn of the Planet of the Apes.22/100
__label__2 An absolute waste of time. The storyline made no sense, the characters were very weak, and I didn't see the "love", for a movie entitled "The Lovers". The story could have played out better; there should have been an ending to the 1770's relationship, and how the ring got in the ocean and not to mention how the rings could have brought him back to life. Don't get me started on that 300 year old witch or ghost that had the second ring. The premise behind the rings should have had a different outcome whereas the soul of a present day living Tulaja should be his soul mate, not some dumb treasure chaser that acted like Gollum from Lord of the rings. I'm no playwright but this should never have been produced, are we that hard up for a good script that just about anything can get green-lighted. I am a fan of Josh's...or rather I was. He's been away for quite a while; he should have picked a better project for his second coming. I'll give him a second chance only because of his prior work. If the next one sucks too he'll hear it from me. Next time IFC Films wants to throw away 35 million dollars I'll play catch with them.
__label__2 SPOILER ALERT - Not much of a spoiler, but I mention a life changing event for an unspecified character. ;) I think that some viewers gave this a 3 out of 10 due to the scenery, but this was not supposed to be a travelogue. Some commented that they liked the music, but I felt it was a ripoff of the "Last Samurai." Hartnett and Basu had negligible chemistry together, but the writing was hollow throughout the film, so the shortcomings of the film cannot be blamed entirely on them. I felt Hartnett was the better actor by far. Basu, and more the director perhaps, try to evoke emotion through her by having her stare out into space over long periods of time that were almost excruciating to watch.I don't believe I've ever watched a film in which a major character died, when I felt zero reaction beyond some disgust at the means of death. I suspect that is because I felt the character deserved to die at that point, as they were so awfully written. The lines uttered by the Indian guru at the end were cheesy. The relationship between Hartnett's American lover and him was never established, so it was impossible to connect with all the crying on her part. The movie was a mishmash of British colonialism, which was extremely boring by the way, and the two relationships of a British soldier/sea explorer both lacking real connection. This movie is a masterpiece of boredom. I've seen much better Hallmark movies. This film should be watched only if you are already in severe pain, which can only be alleviated through distraction. Although it's not very distracting, come to think of it. It could ease your pain by putting you to sleep though, through a combination of mental and emotional boredom, beautiful scenery, and mournful music . ;)
__label__2 Writer-director Roland Joffe recreates two entirely different and breathtaking worlds: an underwater world with a ship-wreck and the British Raj. Yet despite the elegant cinematography, "The Lovers" was a terrible bore. The problem with this movie is not that the plot amounts to a preposterous love story, with the moral being that uniting two rings together will reunite two lovers. Rather, the chemistry between Jay Fennel (Josh Hartnett) and Laura Fennel (Tamsin Egerton) and James Stewart (Josh Hartnett) and Tulaia Naik (Bipasha Basu) was not believable at any level. As a result, I could not get involved in the lives of any of the film's characters. Roland Joffe has made great films in the past, such as "The Killing Fields" (1984), but he has lost his way as a filmmaker since then. "The Lovers" sadly exemplifies the continued decline of this once greater director. Aside from the absence of compelling human stories, Joffe makes a number of other mistakes. There are intricate subplots about Indian princely rivalries and the British East India Company's political intrigues without any explanation as to why they are important to this movie. Instead, these subplots become loose ends, which proves that Joffe and the film editors are unable to organize the film's subject matter into a coherent and involving story. This movie also has more than a few action sequences, but they fail to generate any excitement or suspense because the characters who were in danger did not inspire much sympathy. The same holds true for many of the movie's smaller details, including Dolly's whisky drinking which seems strangely out of place. Apparently, there were significant delays over this movie's release because of editing difficulties. Yet having watching the final product, I think "The Lovers" is one of those movies that should not be released at all.
__label__2 Narrow in scope, this movies attempts to stereotype Asian culture using the history of the 47 Ronin as a lose reference.Another one of Hollywood's poor attempt to draw on the appeal of eastern culture for western viewers. With the cliché of the central "Caucasian" character immersed in an "oriental backdrop". Not convincing enough as either fantasy or action/ adventure. Tragic waste of acting talent and cinematography, as it was trumped by the weak,dull, far too predictable plot and dialog.Suitable for those who enjoy shallow representations of "foreign culture".
__label__2 Instead of a real plot, the hackneyed script provided at most a minimal excuse for moving from one "spectacular" action scene to another. The first thirty-forty minutes were particularly leaden and devoid of any spark of humor intended or otherwise. There were some "moments" that could have had meaning with more development and a better plot, but without one you were left nothing.Worse for an action movie, instead of action scenes that made some sense, it had one logical howler after another in them designed to make the task of the heroes more difficult and the actions seem more "spectacular." Action scenes don't have to make perfect sense all the time, but they have to do so enough that they don't intrude on your suspension of disbelief. I didn't expect much except for the great ratings it gets, and I am not in the prime audience, but even my son was gagging at some of the lines and looking longingly at the exit sign too often.
__label__2 It just rocks for the following reasons:The robot from Hitchhikers Guide To The Galaxy is here. I love that film! He is still depressed too. Chinese products, Chinese technology, Chinese noodles, Chinese actors. I love that the studio is part-owned by the Chinese now and the rider orders the directors to cast a Chinese person (like Kong, like Doctor Strange etc.) because what the boss says goes! After all, like everyone else I do most of my shopping at the Chinese dollar store Wal-mart. It shows how important and the center of the universe our planet is. The aliens having been USA slapped in the original have gone back light years and have come back to Earth, yes Earth, because planets like ours are so rare. OK, the story is contradicting itself with the whole they vacuumed many other planets, but anyway. We put a station on the moon but hey it rotated and was on the wrong side when the aliens returned so we did not know what to do when an alien arrives.
__label__2 I don't like fireworks. Never did. I didn't want to waste my time watching them, so instead I decided to go and see "Independence Day: Resurgence." I've never regretted a decision more in my life.Wow. You ever sit in a class room, and while the teacher is talking you just kind of zone out, and then about ten minutes later you jump back to reality and realize you're supposed to be paying attention? This happened to me multiple times during this movie. There were points where I actually forgot I was watching a film, and I'm not joking.The tag line is "We had twenty years to prepare. So did they." But did they? Because after watching this movie I really couldn't tell. In fact, the aliens seemed weaker. Sure, they had a few force fields, a few clever bait and switches, but is that really all they came up with after twenty years? No wonder no one in the movie seemed afraid of them. People actually seemed pretty calm, even though the aliens wiped out London and China immediately after entering the Earth's atmosphere, just by flying over them. But that doesn't seem to bother anyone. The Earth is going to end in a few minutes? Didn't seem to matter to anybody in this film, because no one showed any emotion, and anger, any sadness, any grief, any hysteria, or any fear relating to this, and because of this, there was no sense of tension or fear for the viewer either. And this throws the tone off, also. I understand that these movies are supposed to be guilty pleasure fun, but at least have the tone be a little darker and a little more serious. This film was so lighthearted that it was actually off-putting.This movie never really felt like it got started either. I mean, you get your giant CGI explosion fest when the alien ship first enters the Earth's atmosphere, with cities literally being torn out of the ground, but then the action never gets any bigger or better than that. My jaw literally dropped while watching the destruction during this scene, and I was ready for the action to intensify and grow. But it didn't. It got slower. They put the climax in the first 45 minutes of the movie, and then just spend the rest of the running time focusing on the falling action.The action was also incoherent, with a million things happening on the screen at one time. It was hard to follow and looked very generic, and while it wasn't necessarily boring, it wasn't exciting in the slightest. And the CGI wasn't even that good either; there were points where watching this movie was like watching gameplay of an off-brand science fiction video game that was released in the middle of winter to appeal to the parents of small children who have no idea that the game they're buying is a cheap knockoff of a triple A title.And speaking of CGI, the universe that was built in the film didn't seem believable at all. I didn't see an improved and more protected Earth that used futuristic alien technology to their advantage. I saw a paint bucket of CGI vomit thrown on the screen, with Roland Emmerich stuffing it down our throats while saying "Believe it! This is reality!"I should've watched the fireworks instead.
__label__2 every movie must have a useless Chinese actor/actress and loads of Chinese product placement. How lame. Chollywood is so lame. I watched this until the 240-minute mark and I honestly couldn't handle anymore. I love science fiction, but this movie is even worse than the Disney Star Wars crap... such a piece of crap. The tacky Chinese chick... how do they pick them? Just plain popularity so it sells in China or do they do cheap low quality Chinese casting couch? She was such a bad pick for this. I don't even care whether or not she slept with someone because I am a man...I just care that she failed to capture the role she's playing and actually she has no role. I don't recommend anyone watches the film. Who knew China has Independence Day?
__label__2 I will try not to repeat some of what others have so brilliantly written in some reviews. I just add this in order to contradict the hype that has allowed this movie to be ranked so high in IMDb. The same has been happening with other movies, and that is a shame for IMDb, which is becoming unreliable.I want to stress the fact that the only complexity in this movie is trying to figure out how you can invest so much money in a script that continuously makes a fool of the average critic intelligent viewer! The story is not complex. It is deliberately confusing in order to conceal its stupidity. Nothing that really matters is explained in the movie.And there's so many embarrassing clichés (the recruiting of the team, the episode in Mombassa, the assault of the ice fortress, many of the action sequences)... the average viewer must be disappointed!And the dreams - which serve as the scenario to most of the movie - are populated by the utmost lack of imagination.Finally, there's the score, louder and louder, building a suspense that is never there, for everything is a dream, and we do not quite catch what there is exactly that can go wrong...Well, all in all, the movie is an insult to the average intelligent viewer and, having been directed by Christopher Nolan, an ultimate disappointment.
__label__2 Do you enjoy 20 minutes of Godzilla inter cut with about 100 minutes of talking? Do you think that Godzilla is best represented as some sort of weird troglodyte that shoots laser beams out of all his orifices? If so, then I've got the movie for you!Seriously though, what the hell is with these reviews on here? Are you guys so desperate for a new Japanese Godzilla movie that you'll slurp up whatever they feed you? The amount of fun in this movie was ZERO. It was an ordeal to get through. I grew up on Godzilla, I'm not willing to let the makers of the abysmal Attack On Titan adaptation do this to my big G. Demand better, or at least demand some FUN!
__label__2 I've been a Godzilla fan all my life. For as long as I remember I always looked forward to seeing the King of the Monsters on screen. I took the good with the bad, the horrific with the silly. It was all good.I had high hopes for this movie. My hopes were dashed.SPOILER: Remember when people complained that the Gareth Edwards movie had Godzilla in it for 20 minutes? Well, Shin Godzilla has Godzilla on screen for just about the same amount of time. Yet these same fans are squeeing about how wonderful this movie is. If you read these reviews you would think it was wall-to-wall Godzilla. It isn't.I guess if Toho does it, that's fine. But I didn't pay my hard earned money to see a group of military and government yahoos sitting around talking. And talking. And talking some more. The humans are boring. I don't care about them. I paid to see good old fashioned widespread death and destruction.Now about the critter re-design: he didn't seem like Godzilla to me. I admit I adore Legendary's design. He looks badass and majestic. Shin Godzilla looks like he fell out of the ugly tree and hit every branch on the way down. Plus, he's supposed to be just a big dumb animal, not a force of nature. Wasn't that what people hated about the Sony Godzilla? Why is Toho getting a free pass for this mess? I had the impression that he was in pain most of the time, which might have been what Toho was going for, but still. Compared to Shin Legendary's Godzilla looks handsome and elegant like George Clooney. Some of the CGI was laughable, awkward and downright clunky. But here again, if Toho does it that must be right. Other fans might be able to overlook that, but I can't. Poor special effects are wrong, no matter who does it. And Godzilla deserves better.In conclusion, Shin Godzilla reminded me of a cheesy 50s scifi movie. I could easily see the gang on the new Mystery Science Theater 3000 roast this movie like it deserves. That is, if they can manage to stay awake for the good parts, the 14 to 20 minutes Big G is on screen. I'm glad I got a chance to see it. I just wish this movie had been better.
__label__2 I was about 8 years old when I was first introduced to the Hobbit from the animated 1 hour movie. The movie was a yearly event. As a child, it freaked me out. But, my Dad loved Glenn Yarbrough and the music, so, I was made to sit through it.Since that time, I eventually appreciated the storyline of that silly cartoon and the characters from it. And, when I grew up, I read the book, and then the LOTR series and fell in love with them.I think that you have to look at this movie from 2 points of view. From 1. Viewers like myself who fell in love with the books and original characters and are looking for some semblance of that universe in a movie. 2. Viewers, like my kids, who have never read the books and are fascinated by animated computer novels, games, and the unrealistic expectations of immortality in virtual super humans.If you are type 1. You will hate this movie. It fell short of all of my expectations. The Hobbit is not an epic story. In other words, this story was short, a 300 page book. It was, however, an epic adventure seen through the eyes of a single character, a character who had a realistic perspective of his small contribution to the world around him. His character never wavered from that perspective as he watched events unfold and did what little he could to contribute and help. He never became the grandiose, cocky, tempered tough guy that this movie seems to try to portray him as."The Hobbit" was a story that sets up the universe that these characters lived in. Elves, Goblins, Orcs, Hobbits and Humans and other creatures defined their roles in this world and their conflicts. Then, the story moves on to show how a band of characters, plus the Hobbit, interacts in this world and the story unfolds giving a lesson and a way to perceive our own world and how we, as individuals, interact with it. It's a simple message, yet, the book finds a way to make this message profound giving the characters depth and meaning and focusing on the hobbit as one individual, insignificant in his eyes, in an amazing world. This most basic message which encompasses the entirety of the book is completely, 100% lost in the movie. The one line in the movie, by Gandalf, which was never spoken in the book, but, was the most significant and meaningful in this movie was, "All good stories need to be embellished a little..." That was an understatement.If you are type 2, you might enjoy this movie. Tons of action, crazy cgi, most of the film is animated, and it attempts to tie into and be a prequel for the LOTR trilogy. Lot's of battles and fighting, immortal death defying falls (just like any computer game) that serves no purpose to define our mortality (since no one dies or even gets injured), last second cliff hanger rescues, gross ugly characters that sound goofy and look like Jar Jar Binks on steroids, pretty scenery, loud noises, explosions, more bad guys killed per second that you can shake a stick at and pretty much any other Hollywood formula that draws in money. And, that was just one movie in a trilogy that has no purpose other than to make lots and lots of money.I took the Kids to watch this and spared no expense. IMax screen, popcorn, Icees, candy and some snacks. $100 down the toilet. The kids fell asleep during the first hour and I wanted to leave after the 2nd.
__label__2 I am bitterly disappointed by this film. It's noisy, jumbled, and chaotic, far too violent (it was a children's book, for heaven's sake!), and almost completely formless. The action sequences are just ridiculous, and what's worse is that they look fake - maybe an artifact of filming a 3D movie and then showing a 2D version, but something that you can't say of the LoTR movies. This was like a not very attractive cartoon.Morevoer, even as stuffed to the gills as it is with material from Tolkien's appendices to LoTR and other things that should make the world come alive and draw you in to the back story, much of it doesn't makes sense. It's just a blitz of portentous talking between fights and chases. The acting may not be all bad, but nobody's even on screen long enough to actually act or is given anything to *do*. Ian McKellen's Gandalf has become a caricature and his performance no more than a collection of tics and mannerisms. Sylvester McCoy is embarrassing. At least half the dwarfs aren't' given enough actual acting time to create characters, which just makes the film even more cartoon-like.Overall, watching The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey was about as much fun as watching someone play World of Warcraft. I hate to say it, but even as someone who has been a scholarly Tolkien geek for decades, I may not bother to see the moves that are to follow. I'm afraid that may be a rather common reaction, too. Oh, well - maybe it will turn people toward reading the book (and Tolkien's other work) to see what the fuss was really about.
__label__2 This movie is bad. Really bad. About the only good thing I can say about it is that I am not being forced to watch it now. Oh, and Gollum was done reasonably well I suppose, as far as that goes. At least the changes made there didn't seem so destructive and pointless as to be an affront to intelligence.Personally, having endured this mess, I am amazed anyone can find something here to enjoy. Fans of the book would seem unlikely to as it shares almost nothing with that story. Fans of good movies surely would take exception to the simple fact that it was ridiculous and boring. It is hard to take this farce seriously right from the opening shots which present Hobbiton on the day of Bilbo's birthday party from Lord of the Rings and then ramble on and on for fifteen or twenty minutes without even so much as trying to establish anything relevant or meaningful. Why start there? One must presume so that old LOTR cast members could be included and the running time could be stretched to the breaking point. Stretching seemed to be the main goal of the director since so much pointless and irrelevant material has been added to this film throughout. In the almost three hours I sat in the theatre I feel confident I saw an hour and a half of filler material meant to do nothing more than take up time.Among the worst offenders in this area must be counted the fifteen minutes or so we spend watching stone giants fighting for no reason whatsoever. Does it have anything to do with the story? No, nothing at all. Is it interesting? No, not in the least. Does it take up time? Oh yeah, bunches, and it is CGI too, so there you go. However, this is nothing compared to the absurdity of Radagast the Brown who we get to watch for what seems like an hour dressed as some sort of homeless Santa Claus with poop in his hair (that is not a joke) riding in a sled pulled by magical bunny rabbits (sadly that is not either). These moments might be among the most ridiculous I have seen in a motion picture since Peter Jackson presented us with a Central Park ice skating monkey love scene in King Kong. I think this one may win though.And yet this is just the start. Bad, plastic sets, outrageously juvenile humour, teleporting elves, and a Thorin Oakenshield apparently being played by Macgruber are only some of what else is wrong with this movie. There is even a fantastically awful sequence in which orcs pursue Radagast and his eight magic bunnies around and around in something straight out of Benny Hill. In every way imaginable, it is just really, really bad. Really.
__label__2 Once again, I was prompted into seeing this movie because of extremely high IMDb reviews.I could not disagree more with those who are rating this movie highly. Frankly, I thought it was terrible.Where to begin....I understand a movie dealing with a subject like X-Men requires a large suspension of disbelief. I was actually a fan of the first X-Men movie, but this latest incarnation was bad in so many ways I am not sure I am a sufficiently proficient writer to articulate them....It was cheesy, silly, contrived, largely poorly acted, and simply ridiculous. The plot and antagonist reminded of the worst of the "James Bond" franchise, with the villain traveling around in a luxurious submarine with an attractive woman (who could turn herself into a diamond....riiiiight) hanging on his arm. He is going to destroy the world, of course, and smile and laugh while doing it so we will know he is really bad. Lame.Despite spending a lot of time examining the history of the major characters, the film has almost zero effective character development. There is a "Tinkerbell" like character who flies around on dragonfly wings and spits fireballs. She of course is knock-out gorgeous, and is discovered while working as a stripper. Yes, I am capable of "suspending disbelief", but there was no point here. This was simply painfully stupid.I know nothing of the X-Men comics, but I think the idea is mildly interesting as long as it is kept within limits. They managed to do this with the first movie. However, since the first installment they have become less and less focused on story and character development, and more and more based on ridiculous spectacle.In the larger picture, I am simply going to have to stop paying attention to the "Best" ratings that show up first on IMDb when a new film is released. I have wasted too much money seeing highly rated films, like this one, that are simply terrible. I am convinced these reviews are not genuine and are quickly posted when poor films are released in an attempt to salvage some commercial success.I sincerely hope this review will save some of you from making my mistake. This latest X-Men film is awful. Hopefully this review will be visible among the dishonest hype, and save some of you from wasting your time and money.
__label__2 The best think you can say about the movie, based on the credits, it employed a lot of people.Nicolas Cage spouts his lines like he's reading fortune cookies. Jay Baruchel plays the same character he played in "She's Out Of My League" with the same results.Most of the joke quips fall flat. The movie has a jerky pace, with plenty of redundant action scenes followed by exposition to explain the changing rules in the world they created.The homage to Mickey's Sorcerer's Apprentice was fun but too long. A "Star Wars" reference made you wish you were watching that classic.Nothing seemed fresh. Situations and special effects seemed to be borrowed from other films of the same genre. Grasping for something good, that would be the score and the sound.
__label__2 In the original POSEIDON ADVENTURE, the venerable SS Poseidon was on its last voyage, even before it had a wave of bad luck. Headed to port to be turned to scrap, the aging luxury liner was comfortably aged and loaded down with a bunch of amiable B-list movie stars playing rather endearingly ordinary people. POSEIDON, the remake, is apparently far from being on its last leg; sparkling new and lavishly decorated in nondescript, tasteless elegance, it is carrying a passenger list of dubious VIPs, who don't even have enough dimension to be clichés and are played by actors, who, though competent, would barely even rate being on the B-list. But it does seem to have a healthy cargo of things that blow up. Indeed, it seems that more of the unfortunate victims of this seagoing disaster meet fiery deaths than watery ones -- explosions being far more photogenic than the inability to hold ones breath for very long.POSEIDON the new movie is very much like Poseidon the new ship: cold, efficient, impersonal and doomed to sink like a rock. The most remarkable thing about this SS Poseidon is that it has a huge bridge full of technicians and flashing electronic gizmos, yet the 150-foot tidal wave that flips the boat sneaks up on everyone without warning. Apparently the wave spotting equipment they use is from the same company that created iceberg detecting equipment for the Titanic. Indeed, the first person to spot the tidal wave is a passenger played by a strangely subdued Richard Dreyfuss, whose impromptu suicide attempt is rudely interrupted. The movie itself is pretty much an empty vessel, though it is certainly a product of its time. Trivial concerns such as story and character are jettisoned in favor of elaborate and expensive sets and CGI special effects. Indeed, the imagery of the new POSEIDON is most impressive and outshines the then-cutting edge productions values of the 1972 original. Yet, it isn't nearly as effective in any regard. The original film had its ragtag band of survivalists interacting with their topsy-turvy environment, where this time the stunts and sets and CGI simply overwhelm everything and everybody. Like so many CGI blockbusters, human interaction is merely a bothersome detail; the real focus being on the violent extermination of masses of nameless, faceless victims. And once again, Hollywood has mistaken technological gimmickry for storytelling skill. When the film does try to escape from tired predictability it bites off far more than it can chew. At one point a main character is compelled to kill another character in order to save himself, yet this intense and perverse moment early in the film is never dealt with again. The surviving character must neither redeem himself or face karmic punishment for his act. The secondary character is just killed and forgotten -- presumably because the character and the actor playing the part weren't important enough to care about. After that, it is hard to care about the fate of anyone else. The film has no sense of humanity, let alone a sense of humor about the absurdity of the entire premise.The cast, not unduly burdened with characters to play or chances to actually act, run the obstacle course with dogged professionalism. Kurt Russell is no Gene Hackman, but he is in the unfortunate position of being too good of an actor for this type of film, yet not big enough of a star to actually carry it. Young Jimmy Bennet is perfectly convincing as a terrified child and Josh Lucas has an impressive underbite perfectly suited for jutting out his chin in fierce determination. Other than that, the cast is unremarkable, sadly lacking even any Carol Lynleys or Pamela Sue Martins, let alone such wonderfully hammy pros like Roddy McDowall, Stella Stevens, Ernest Borgnine or the inimitable Shelley Winters. None of the characters/actors stand out enough to be sympathetic, endearing or even memorable. Indeed, the three female leads -- Jacinda Barrett, Emmy Rossum and Mía Maestro -- are so interchangeable that it is hard to tell their characters apart. I suppose that the filmmakers wanted this to be like the remake of KING KONG, an eye-popping, special effects reinvention of a well-worn story. But, instead, POSEIDON ends up being like the woefully unnecessary remake of PSYCHO: there was no need, demand or purpose for this film to exist and the filmmakers reveal they have no apparent clue as to why the original is loved in the first place. That's what happens when you set sail without a compass; you just get lost at sea.
__label__2 I usually don't go in depth much about my thoughts on movies, and that's because in most cases, I feel like everything there is to say about a movie has already been said because so many people, not just critics, are able to voice their opinions now with the advent of social media. I also understand that it's very hard to make a movie, especially a good one, so I generally try not to give much attention to bad movies or waste my time and energy bashing them.With "Alice Through the Looking Glass," though, I feel like I have to put my opinion out there. I'm in the minority with this one in that I loved "Wonderland" and was incredibly excited to see "Looking Glass." Having finally seen the movie, I'm really disappointed. I feel burned.Tim Burton directed "Alice in Wonderland" but chose not to direct this one - in his place is James Bobin, director of the two most recent "Muppets" films (the first of which I thought was great, the second much less so but still fine). I think it would be unfair to put all of the blame on him, but he's certainly responsible for some of what went wrong here... as is screenwriter Linda Woolverton, who I almost can't believe is the same person who wrote "Alice and Wonderland," "Maleficent," and the original "Beauty and the Beast." While her previous work is whimsical but subtle and sophisticated, "Alice Through the Looking Glass" is an uninspired mess, and I can't help but suspect that she really didn't care about this at all.You know, it seems like almost no one involved in making this movie cared. Mia Wasikowska is probably the only member of the cast who deserves any praise, and I thought she did an even better job playing Alice here than she did in the first movie. Everyone else though, ESPECIALLY Johnny Depp and Anne Hathaway, should be embarrassed. Johnny's Mad Hatter was one of the best things about the first one, but here, he's just really weird and annoying. Like, super annoying...I don't even think the composer, the usually amazing Danny Elfman, put forth much of an effort here. The score for "Alice in Wonderland" is one of my favorite scores for a movie ever, but it's like for this one, he thought he could just recycle the stuff he wrote for the first one and that no one would notice? Well, I did, Danny. I noticed.The visual effects and production design are pretty great, as they should be, but you never get that sense of wonder or escapism that you should get with a movie like this because so much of the movie is just people standing around bantering or delivering boring exposition. The movie is loud and sometimes frantic but rarely fun or engaging. It's a major disappointment and a major step back from "Alice in Wonderland" and Disney's other recent live-action fairytale adaptations. It's just not good.
__label__2 Alice Through the Looking Glass is the sequel to Tim Burton's Alice in Wonderland that nobody asked for, but yet here it is. We return to the ugly world full of annoying caricatures for a second and hopefully final time (for the sake of my sanity).The ensemble cast fail miserably. Mia Wasikowska's enthusiasm is so false and patronising its as if shes talking to an infant child the whole way through the film. Sacha Baron Cohen and Johnny Depp both suffer from stupid voice syndrome as they both speak with a lisp and an accent that only they know what they were going for there. Helena Bonham Carter reprises her roll as the big headed (pun intended) Queen of Hearts, sulking her irritating little way through this 2 hour cluster f*ck. Its hard to care about these characters when you are simply struggling to tolerate them in the first place.The script is garbage. It's littered with unfunny jokes, puns that are so bad they aren't even funny and convenient exposition like "Oh no only the return of the cronosphere can save us now." Long story short its lazy and hard to believe someone was paid to write this piece of sh*t. I do wonder if the dialogue in the script includes the stupid lisps and accents because if so that just makes things worse.The narrative is heavily flawed from the start of this 2 hour slow motion car wreck. We spend the first 5 minutes hearing Alice go on about nothing being impossible only for her to go against everything she believes in another 5 minutes later. The whole series of events that take place in this film could have been avoided if Alice had just stood up for what she believed in and wasn't so fast to give up on her beliefs. But the illogical narrative points don't stop there, no sir. When the Queen of hearts takes her sister Mirana to a pretty petty moment in their childhood, what is her plan? To bust in the door, point and shout "LIAR" like a bitchy school girl and in doing so almost ending the world and all of time. Also its kinda pathetic that the explanation of why the Queen of Hearts is such an ass hole is because one day her sister ate the last tart and blamed her for it. Seriously? It's not even an excuse, some people are just born ass holes and the Queen of Hearts is one of them.BUT WAIT THERE'S MORE, the ending of the film is literally bull*t saves the day as they straight up lost. Everything was consumed by some brown rust like substance and Alice did not return the cronosphere in enough time to restore time back to normality... Roll credits? Nope, have no fear the magical synapse of time will suddenly make a connection to the cronosphere and time is saved hooray for bs. Also if Alice literally let go of the cronosphere before turning to rust then the balance of time would have been restored, so yeah the ending is beyond stupid.I could go on about the many other aspects of this film that are terrible like the not so great sfx that the film chooses to focus on a lot or how the sfx create an ugly world to look at and yet for some reason the film persists with lingering on it, but I think I've made my point abundantly clear. This is not a good movie plain and simple, about the only thing that's good about this is hearing Alan Rickman's voice and seeing Andrew Scott both of which last for like 2 minutes. Stop trying to make Tim Burton Alice films happen they aren't going to happen, and I hope now that this film has flopped in typical Johnny Depp fashion, most likely due to his wife beating allegations, that this is the last we shall see of Annoying Alice and the ugly Underlandians.
__label__2 The Mad Hatter looked like Faye Dunaway in Mommie Dearest dressed up as Joan Crawford dressed up as Johnny Depp dressed up as the Mad Hatter!? Alice is the Captain of a sailing Frigate!? And could you understand what Sacha Baron Cohen was saying half the time? Even Alice had some indecipherable lines! The Chronosphere, who came up with this wacky idea? I could go on and on about the goofy mess in this movie but it's not worth it.This movie, this flick, this thing, left me cold and majorly disappointed! I mean really disappointed! Who came up with this plot? To anyone reading this review here's the plot - all the tea party characters are sad because the Mad Hatter has given up on life because 'his family' is missing and presumed dead. (When did the Hatter become Sicilian?) And he has become a recluse. It's up to 'Captain of the frigate' Alice to find them using the Chronosphere she has stolen from mumble mouth Time so she can go back in time to keep Iracebeth's head from swelling because Mirana lied about stealing a cookie and blaming it on Iracebeth and the truth will bring the Mad Hatters family back to him. Now get this - the Hatters family have been living captive in an ant farm!!The descendants of Lewis Carroll really should take legal action for just putting his name in the credits! This is an awful movie and way too long at almost two hours. The only thing that kept my interest is the lavish photography, costumes, and marvelous graphic effects ....... but those 3 thing do not make a movie.
__label__2 I'm a Shrek fan, perhaps not the most enthusiastic in the world, but a fan nonetheless. I value the good laughs I got mainly from Shrek II, but I value them more because I could enjoy them with my entire family. That's rare for us. The Shrek series has plenty of magic to call upon: the entire panoply of mythic characters from Grimm through Disney, rendered in state-of-the-art realistic animation. It also has the resources of a star cast and the momentum of two previous successes. How then can it all add up to such a huge disappointment? It amazes me when Hollywood can take a success like 1 and 2, and make enough errors that coalesce into a cinematic mess. The writers took an excellent ensemble cast, good timing, a wicked sense of humor and addedwhat? Let's go through it. First they added "meaning"as I leaned over and said to my twelve year old, "it's like the film was high-jacked by a third grade teacher." They added a new, major character (voiced by the genre-challenged Justin Timberlake) that was not only massively unappealing and unfunny, but an opportunity for my imaginary third grade teacher to "teach" us about bullying the little guy, etc. I could understand it if a studio was compelled (say by the equivalent of the federal miles per gallon standards forced onto domestic auto manufacturers) to have a certain amount of Department of Education approved "teaching" in a film, but that wouldn't explain their ambition to "teach us" about fears of parenthood. Who exactly do they like their audience is?The core issue is Shrek's reluctant to (a) have enough ambition to be king which is mysteriously offered to him over the true heiress, his wife, and (b) additional reluctance to shoulder the ambitions and responsibility of fatherhood. Funny? No. Third grade teacher material? Yes. Well, sort of, but maybe someone speaking to young adults (who will hate this preachy film). But comedy? No, not even close. So how does a studio take millions of dollars, a huge cast including comic talents like Mike Meyers, John Cleese, Eric Idle, and Eddie Murphy. OK, Eddie Murphy isn't that funny when he's in a fat suit, but he does good sidekick. My first inkling that something was wrong came early when the father-King frog died for a protracted scene. Remind me, what's funny about a guy dying for a long, long, time again? Then there's a whole scene at a medieval high school full of flat, dated "valleyspeak" that the kids have moved on from years ago. How old are these writers? Are they all obsessed with their first pregnancy? On top of all this they desecrate the already seriously overused Arthurian legend. This unfunny boy, Artie, is supposedly the young King Arthur. Adding insult, they make Merlin into a ineffectual retired hippie complete with Birkenstocks and a drumming circle. What are they trying to say? Isn't it enough to desecrate Disney's own products like making Captain Hook secret ambition to be a flower gardener? All here villains harbor lost ambitions and it takes a very minor confrontation to turn them back into productive citizens. It all goes on painfully long, unredeemed even by the credits, which were quite funny in Shrek II. It's hard to understand let alone explain a fiasco like this. Was the person in charge humor-impaired? Or perhaps they were not able to lead a huge machine like this, and ended up taking one or two bits from everyone, the whole never adding up. Was there an unfunny heavy boot from the studio? Did the studio want to make less money for some obscure stock-buy back scheme comprehensible only to the inner circle? We will never know. Maybe even the director, writers and cast can't explain it. It's like the fall of Rome. It happened; there are theories, but they are in the end just theories.
__label__2 I'm a big Terminator 1 and 2 fan. They are 2 of my favourite sci-fi movies of all time. Terminator 3 and 4 were decent but both quite dull and not even comparable to their predecessors. Terminator 5 is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. There are no words to describe how awful this is. They couldn't have made it any worse even if they tried. Everything from the acting to the script to the special effects is absolutely laughable. And yes I did start laughing at some point, thinking 'what the hell is going on here?'. The people who wrote the script should be fired, the actors should go to acting classes and Arnie should apologise to the fans for this monstrosity. This should have never been made. What a joke of a movie.
__label__2 Lets not even attempt to compare this to Cameron's originals but sadly it doesn't even have the guilty pleasure aspect of 3 or the ideas of Salvation this is just a lack luster cash grab. I can understand why Arnold would want to go back to a sure thing after his recent box office disappointments but honestly I'd have more faith in a new Conan or True Lies film than this. The action is fit for a mediocre Marvel film and really doesn't suit Terminator to be bouncing about like the Hulk. The drawn out plot which is clearly a trilogy idea that wouldn't fit one side of A4 feels like a pilot for a 90's TV show and the effects are poor. When Arnold loses his skin it's mostly CGI and he looks like Kano, no blood because you know the kids might get scared. I really hope this flops so Arnold might go to another franchise and give us something decent in his aging years. Truly disappointing.
