__label__3 Before I unload my barrage of critique against this film I would like to first state something. Whenever I watch a movie, and I have so many issues with it, I will take a step back and ask myself for what it is, is it at least a good action movie? The answer is no, it is not.Good things about the movie: High production quality and some good visuals / The intro sequence before the helicopter**SPOILERS BELOW** -AVERT YOUR EYES!-Problems with the movie: 1) You kill a bad guy, bad guys organization wants to kill the wife cause she's a loose end, Bond prevents the assassins, she finds out Bond killed her husband, then... she sleeps with him immediately. What? Sure she didn't love her husband but with all the stuff going down and after a powerful organization sends 2 assassins they have time to take a break and get busy? (possibly Assassins come in pairs and more arrive only after 30 minutes enough time to shag) 2) WASTED TALENT.2a) Christoph Waltz. Such a great actor, with a horrible script. At the beginning they make him out to be a bada$$ in the shadows requiring to whisper things to underlings who then announce it to the rest of the group at a meeting. But then he randomly talks on his own because he can, and even has time to say hello to Mr. Bond in the crowd just as Bond realizes he's been caught, and manages to escape bumbling security guards. They attempted to make Waltz' character this mastermind who I was never afraid of, and he wasn't that menacing. For the leader of one of the most powerful organizations his master plans came off weak and his ruthlessness tame.2b) Dave Bautista. They used him pretty good with his introduction and a fight scene in the movie, but the car chase scene was horrible. Bond was essentially talking to moneypenny on the phone about bad guys rap sheets while Bautista's character was chasing him down in a car (but he was more following Bond then attempting to shoot him or run him off the road). At one point during the chase scene Bautista pulls up next to bond and is looking at Bond and their eyes meet up... and nothing happens Bond pulls ahead. Is this a love story between two men or is this a bada$$ car chase scene where the bad guy is trying run him off the road/pound him into the ground? 3) This film has max level cheese that at times I could have sworn this movie was written by Bollywood writers. I don't mind a decent amount of cheese, but if you're piling it on and the expiry date shows 10 years ago there's a problem. 3a) Helicopter intro Scene 3b) save the girl or building blows up scene 3c) Bonds helicopter chasing vehicle convoy 4) Boring car chase and fight scenes (with camera tricks to make it look more epic which i'm not a fan of and its as bad as lens flares) 5) Bond falls in love with a woman he hardly knows (it didn't feel believable) but that's OK because he's ready to leave his life as a spy6) The story felt all over the place, and at times Bond is purposely made to look weak and suddenly drinks a RedBull and tears it up 007 style. I didn't really connect with a lot of the characters either.7) The instant you saw Bond towering over the enemy at the end you already knew he wasn't going to do anything they gave you obvious clues earlier on through M thats how it was going to play out.I couldn't even disconnect myself from the flaws just to enjoy it as an action movie since it was overall boring. If you can't connect with the story, 2.5 hours is way too long for a few flashy scene's.
__label__3 This is one of the worst Bond films. There was some good cinematography and an all star cast, but just God awful plot and story telling. I don't recommend seeing it.I like all of Craig's Bond films, except this one. Actually, Craig is my favorite Bond actor. In the previous Craig films, they did a good job of using ancillary characters like M, Q and Moneypenny to augment his character so that that his missions seemed logically paced and not solely center on his prowess alone. They deviated from the traditional Bond by allowing him to have Blonde hair, who had a an experience worn face and body that did break down from wear and tear, who was detail oriented and mission driven. While this film still tried to keep to it's current trend, it reverted back to just stupid unrealistic scenes, like Bond shooting SMG's with one hand from 200 yards out and saying clever one liners like "You're bluffing," I lost track of how many helicopters were used in this film. How many times was bond apprehended and somehow able to break his 'bonds' from his captors and escape the villain's carefully planned exotic methods of execution? And it was 2.5 hours long; plus the editing made no sense of how they got from point A to point B. They could've at least had the villains die in extreme and weird ways, but no, a total let down even on that point. This is a first time I've written a review and encouraged the audience members not to see this film. It reminds me the Die Another Day film with Pierce Bronson which was terrible, but they squeezed it in because he only had one film left on his contract. Forgivable, Yes, but I hope the producers have something better for the next Bond film seeing as they are pacing these releases 2.5 years apart, which a tight deadline.
__label__3 I was finding it incredibly hard to stay awake through this movie. Even the action scenes were quite lacklustre. I think it had nothing to do with the big budget special effects but more to do with the emotionless performance of Daniel Craig's James Bond. Whenever anything exciting happened he acted like he didn't even care. He may do this every day but I can't believe it would ever get old or boring. In between the action scenes there were intense periods of nothingness. It's not surprising really as there was no real plot. I just cannot watch a mindless film about fighting, explosions and getting laid when there's no passion.Speaking of passion the "bond girls" were a big disappointment and had no connection with Bond. It was not believable and super awkward. I know when I've just faced a life or death situation that's exactly the point when I can't resist hooking up with some random. It's such an old concept and it might be time for the Bond series to be put to bed.
__label__3 There are some things that work really well, like the goofy comedy that's also present in the other movies. The movie starts off nicely with a great looking action sequence that implies how great the rest of it could be. The special effects are fantastic. Unfortunately, the movie is so convoluted that anything like a coherent plot is lost, as well as any significant character development further than Harry, Mary Jane or Peter himself.Peter's "transformation" into a darker self when he dons the dark suit is laughable. You're not sure whether you're watching a comedy, a drama, or a purposefully ridiculous B movie. Peter's actions are so over the top that you just want to laugh at the script rather than WITH it.The main villains get only a short amount of screen time, and by the "big" ending you're just wondering when Dawson's Creek is going to end and when Spiderman 3 will begin. 90% of the film consists of Peter Parker walking around, crying, and making a fool of himself in various over-the-top ways. Perhaps I went in with too many expectations, such as the possibility of an atmosphere to the film that would fit with what was happening.As a fan of the old cartoon, and a real fan of Venom, I was incredibly let down by the amount of time spent on his character, as well as the fact that Topher Grace is essentially Eric from That 70's Show, and I don't mean that it's the same actor. He's the same scrawny, sarcastic joker that he always plays, which, if you're familiar with the comic or the cartoon, Eddie Brock was NOT. Even if you've never heard of Venom or aren't a big fan, the villain has a total of about fifteen minutes on screen and isn't very exciting, nor is anything about him explained. He's simply suddenly THERE, as if thrown into the movie only to get butts in the seats. So feels the entire movie. It all seems like filler, even as the end credits start.There was a point about halfway through the movie that I simply gave up trying to justify the movie, and realized that it was just plain bad. They tried to do too much, and by having so many villains, weren't able to make a single one very deep. And the whole "inner conflict" theme is a joke. Literally. Peter's "dark side" is more comedy than anything else.I recommend waiting for this to come out on video and giving it a rent if you're really that much of a fan. Overall, it's a big let down considering the expectations and hype surrounding it.
__label__3 Everything seems so bland. The constant jibe of who gets the last word in seems forced, predictable and acts like an edit for the next scene. Coming out of the screening, there is not one scene or moment that i feel that i can walk away with in awe.The romantic angle that was introduced lack chemistry. From out of nowhere, the characters involved suddenly had an interest for one another? Without any build up of it in past movies nor in this one, it just felt empty.Camera angles that were purposefully shot for the intentional thrill of 3D is like any other angles used in any other 3D-movie-going-experience. I wonder when will this gimmick/trend go away.All in all...it is still watchable. It just left a disdain taste of yet another repetition of the Marvel formula. Age of Ultron neither has the quality and magic of both Guardians of the Galaxy or Captain America Winter Soldier had.
__label__3 It's quite an achievement to make a boring Superhero Movie so well done to all involved.Remember the first average at best Avengers Movie? A baddie in control of the Tesseract uses it and an alien army to try and take over the planet. Whilst this is happening the Avengers are brought together where there are a few internal issues involving having their minds controlled &/or beating each other up, before joining forces to beat the alien threat.Well.... This movie is about a baddie who was in control of the Tesseract which then becomes the catalyst for a new robot baddie and it's robot army trying to destroy the planet. This again creates a few internal issues involving the Avengers having their minds controlled &/or beating each other up, before joining forces to beat the robot threat. It's just the same movie repackaged (again) which tries to be intelligent but comes across as dull. Some of the Avengers presence have little or no no point in being in the movie (Hawkeye just being there for example to offer the others a weekend retreat to go to).But as with the first movie and the upcoming Captain America: Civil War it seems as long as the movie is crammed full of as many Superheroes as possible and they all kick off at some point during the movie, then this is enough to keep an audience happy.Stick with the X-Men at least they make an effort!
__label__3 I have no idea why I'm the only one among my group of friends who felt this movie doesn't deserve a thumb-up. I yawned all the way till the end, fell asleep for a couple of minutes.The story is seems to be forcedly connected. I know they are all relevant but the bind of the connection is not that strong. it's like a boring bed time story. Simply jumping from one to another without bothering to develop, even just scratching the surface, personality or in depth of the characters.The chemistry buildup was not cultivated. Lack of chemistry or connection between the actors. Witty little chitchat doesn't do enough favor to cover the obvious detached actors to their character. Trying very hard to be impressive; the battling, the kicking, the punching, the heroes and the lines. All and all,a lazy, superficial gimmicks.
__label__3 Oh god.This movie butchered the magic of the book. I seriously wasn't sure if this was the same movie... Why didn't Dumbledore pick Harry up from the Dursleys and give them a piece of his mind? Where was the Slug Club? Why didn't Harry know that Sirius' house was now his? not to mention Kreacher? It plays a big part in the next movies! Why weren't the lessons with Dumbledore fully developed? You find out almost NOTHING about Voldemort's past. Where were Bill and Fleur? Where was the twins' shop? (Blink and you miss it) Where was Hagrid? Where was Neville? Where was Quiditch? Where was Tonks' and Lupin's relationship??? What, am I just supposed to believe that they get married out of nowhere in the next book? Where was Madam Rosmerta's role? Where were apparition lessons? How are the trio meant to move from place to place in the next books? Magic Carpet?!?!?! Where was Dumbledore's funeral? Where was Harry's and Ginny's relationship and break-up? Where was Scrimgeour? Where was the big fight at the end? Where was the set up with the diadem? Where was Fenrir Greyback? WHY for the love of all that's holy, did Harry just STAND there while Snape murdered Dumbledore before his very eyes? He was meant to be PETRIFIED (literally)!!! And not only that, but Snape actually SEES Harry, and does nothing about it. Won't Harry find it kinda odd that a Death Eater sees him, practically defenceless, and doesn't do anything about it? Harry is meant to believe that Snape is a full fledged Death Eater, yet he lets Harry get off scott free? That is a SERIOUS oversight in the plot of the book! All these things listed above, the major plot points, weren't there! I couldn't find them!What I COULD find however was: The burning down of the burrow...?!? Dumbledore seeming to only JUST realize that Voldemort used Horcruxes even though he was meant to have already destroyed one... and not only that but I also explicitly heard Dumbledore say: "They could be anything"!!! In the book, he clearly points out that they WOULDN'T be just anything, that Riddle liked collecting things. In the movie, he makes out as if it could be any old thing, a shoe, a can, a piece of paper... (better get searching then Harry, I found the ring, because "Magic leaves traces", but when I die, you're screwed!!!) Some random waitress in some random diner... A rock concert tribute to Dumbledore... A revealing of Hermione's love for Ron... and i DEFINITELY found Ron's and Lavender's relationship and... sexual innuendo?? OK, the Ron and Lavender subplot in the book was quite nice and funny but in the movie, it completely shadowed the ACTUAL story! they were snogging all over the place! it was impossible to focus on anything else with them popping up everywhere! It turned the movie into some sickly rom-com! and then I was shocked to find sexual innuendo! yup, believe it or not. And i know I wasn't the only one because i heard laughs and hoots all around the theater. The scene where Ginny bends down to tie Harry's shoelaces... what is up with that? Hey hang on a minute, isn't Harry's cloak meant to be a hallow? Good thing Luna CHARMED it off him then!!!MASSIVE SPOILERS AHEADSo, not only did they destroy the capodopera that this movie could have been, but they also didn't set up the next movie/s. How are Harry, Ron and Hermione going to start looking for the Horcruxes if they don't even know what they COULD be? How are the contents of Dumbledore's will going to be passed along if Scrimgeour doesn't even exist? How is Harry going to remember that Xenophilius was wearing the symbol of the Hallows at the wedding if the WEDDING CAN'T EXIST??? And HOW is Voldemort going to get the wand from Dumbledore's tomb if 1. the TOMB Isn't THERE and 2. THE WAND Isn't IN THE TOMB ANYWAY!!! How is Harry meant to remember where the diadem was if he NEVER BLOODY SAW IT!!!! How are they going to use Grimmauld Place and Kreacher, not to mention Dobby if there was never even a whisper about what happened to them???This movie was thoroughly disappointing, and I really think they should... remake it basically!!! Because not only was THIS movie bad, but it's set to ruin the next ones as well. The only slim ray of hope (because hope springs eternal) left for the next movies is that they include what they missed out in HBP at the start of the first seventh one. They've got like 5 hours for the rest of the Harry Potter story so they could fit it in.
__label__3 Last night I had gone to the midnight showing of the movie. This morning I wrote a review (below) b/c I wanted to express how disappointed I was. However, I still had tickets to go see it this afternoon. I certainly did not want to sit there for another 2 hours hating it so I had to find a way to like it. I really, really wanted to like this movie. I love HP, afterall! I decided to try another approach, to watch the movie without thinking of the book at all. And I'll be da*ned if it didn't work! I realized that I had spent so much time picking apart what the movie DID NOT have, that I never allowed myself to enjoy what it DID have. Once I did that, and accepted that this movie is merely "based on" the book, I was able to enjoy it! Suddenly, the love story did not seem to dominate as much as it did on my first viewing.....Honestly, I never really thought that changing the way I approached the movie would work, but it did. So, if your a really big fan of the books and cd's, and you really want to find some way to enjoy this movie, I suggest you leave all the knowledge you have of the books at home, sit back, and watch! I started reading reviews last week, so I was aware that all the really good stuff in the book wasn't going to be in the movie. Still I was excited and stood in line for almost 3 hours to see this movie. When I left I felt very, very disappointed. I couldn't believe what I watched, this was a joke, right? Sure that other Harry Potter fans felt the same way, I started to read the fan reviews. Now I'm wondering....did I miss something? How is it this movie is getting such rave reviews?? Did anyone not notice all the plot moments that were changed or left out completely? SPOILERS************************************************ I so wanted to see Dumbledore give the Dursley's their due. And how about Harry and Dumbldore going on the journey to view the Marvolos and Voldomorts father? And lets not even talk about the best part of the book, the fight at the castle. I read somewhere that the director did not want to do the fight because of the fight in book 7. I mean really, come on, that's probably the lamest excuse I've ever heard. Ya know, I never even shed a bloody tear when they killed Dumbledore. There was no emotional work up to it, in my opinion, it was really weak. When I read the book, I cried for days! Well, maybe that's why I did not during the movie....I already mourned him :-) I knew their had to be a lot of things that did not make it in the movie, I just assumed it would be the teenage love angst. Especially given the action films this movie is competing against.But then again, it's getting great reviews, so I think I'm part of the minority of people who were really, really hoping to get a Harry Potter movie that would make JK Rowling proud, at least when she cared.The movie was funny, absolutely. But that's all it was, except for the last 30 minutes. The last 30 minutes, like the 5th movie, is the best part, IMO. But, that's not saying much.
__label__3 There are so many things wrong I don't know where to start.The pacing of the film...there's no flow to it. The first hour feels rushed. There's no time given to anything. The movie just jumps back and forth between Luthor's plan (I'll get to how ridiculous that was later) and little moments that don't amount to much. Clark makes a cameo on the farm, has a few lines of pitiful dialogue with his mother (terribly acted by the way), has a little flashback to his youth and the next thing you know the guy is back in Metropolis and gets his job back in a throw-away line. Even the first action scene is rushed. Supes has been gone for almost two decades so you would think the first shirt rip and "welcome back" would be iconic along with the music. It's not. It's a half second shirt rip and the next thing you know we have a pilot saying "we have an unidentified bogey coming". I thought the clips online were edited but it turns out they're not. It's those little things that irritated the hell out of me.The musical score. This score (specifically the choir) just beats you over the head. You would think something epic was happening on screen when the choir kicked in but more often than not there wasn't and it made me chuckle to myself a couple of times. It was like the music was trying to make the action scenes more than they really were.And speaking of the action....repetitive comes to mind. There's only so many times I can watch Superman catch or lift something before it starts to get stale. As the movie goes on he lifts heavier objects...great. I swear I almost think they repeated him catching some guy in the movie. The very hyped plane rescue was underwhelming to say the least. Honestly, most of the clips online are just about the entire sequence. I heard this scene was supposed to be 10+ minutes. Felt more like around 3 minutes. Most of the footage during that sequence is Lois and passengers bouncing around the plane. And then on top of that they have to ruin that scene with a line Christopher Reeve said 10x better.Also this felt more like a natural disaster flick than a Superman movie. Those little crystals sure do cause plenty of trouble. There are more "tremor" scenes in Superman Returns than the Jurassic Park movies combined. You always know when something big was going to happen because you would see a closeup of a pencil holder or some random object shaking on the desk ad nauseum. The 3rd or 4th time I saw it (I seriously lost count) I was almost tempted to leave. I honestly couldn't believe the mediocrity I was watching.Which leads me to Luthor's plan. One of the worst plans I've ever seen in a comic movie (topping Ra's magic microwave in Batman Begins). The bad part of this plan is it takes up so much of the damn movie. From the start this plan gets a lot of attention and it goes NOWHERE. By the time the third act rolls around (after Lex has executed his little plan) and you see Lex, Kitty and his henchmen sitting around on this desolate rock looking bored I wonder what the hell it was all for. They couldn't come up with anything better than this? The performances....Superman/Clark Kent - The performance of Routh was underwhelming and I can't blame him. I blame the writers. Routh is given absolutely nothing to say as Superman or Clark Kent. He's just THERE. If the guy isn't staring or lifting something he's non-existent. Maybe they decided he couldn't act and scrapped his lines...I don't know. Anyway, how am I supposed to care for him? Lines like "Bye Lois", "I'm always around" is not what I call character building.Lois Lane - She's given plenty to say...but her character was so cold throughout the whole film I honestly didn't give a damn about her either. She just has a bitchy look about her that I couldn't warm up to. Her chemistry with Superman is nowhere to be seen. The only reason I can see Superman and Lois have a romantic history is because of the past movies.Lex Luthor - Spacey sleptwalk through this movie...maybe because he can play this kind of character in his sleep. After all the (camp or menace) threads it turns out Lex is basically the same as Hackman. He has his Ms. Tesmacher 2.0, same wigs, same plan. The only difference is he gets his licks in on Superman. Their little showdown was a VERY underwhelming scene mainly because Superman stands there like a statue and says NOTHING before getting his ass kicked.This post is getting long in the tooth so I'll just say the rest of the cast was adequate.As far as the big revelation with the kid goes....I was so disgusted with S:R by the time it happened that I really just didn't care anymore.Overall I would say this movie is a colossal failure on all levels.The only good thing I can say about Superman Returns is some scenes were very pretty to look at. That's about it.
__label__3 This is the first time I ever came out of a Bond film at the cinema thinking, 'I enjoyed almost none of that.' And there was no mystery for me as to why I felt this way. I didn't have to weigh up the other pros and cons (it is not an unsophisticated film) or think far or deeply. I couldn't stand Quantum Of Solace because ninety-five percent of its action sequences are appallingly directed and edited. Endless, wobbly extreme closeups are cut together too rapidly into a meaningless dirge which prohibits you from discerning anything about the nature of the scene.How many cars are participating in this car chase? Will I be allowed to glimpse anyone's face in this scene other than Bond's? Will I be allowed to glimpse even Bond's face? Which boat is in front? Where is anything in relation to anything else, ever? And just what was that? That blur in front of me for the past half a second, what the hell was it? The answers to these questions respectively throughout Quantum of Solace are, 'I have no clue, no, no, I don't know, I will never know, I don't know, I still don't know.'I'm tired of reading any defence for the most extreme incarnation of this style of action coverage. It is purposeless obfuscation. It's anti-exciting, annoying and just plain rubbish. Bond films in particular are known for their history of spectacular action and stunts, and if you briefly consider any eighties Bond film, you'll recall that somewhere in it was a long, held shot of something amazing. People fighting on the back of an airborne plane, racing cars through Paris or pursuing each other down a mountain on skis. Compared to any one of those scenes, everything in Quantum is a disgrace, incapable of engendering marvel or wonder.Perhaps I should try to be less catastrophic about the direction of cinema in general and just apportion blame directly to the guy from the Bourne films whose second unit did this to Quantum, and to Marc Forster, who directed the film, and either sanctioned or did not repel the Bourne-on-steroids content. Call me Mister Insane, but I demand the context, information and sense of place delivered by even the occasional wide shot. To see how Bond kung-fu'd an elevator full of guys would be cool, right? The event happens in this film, but what you actually see is a camera jerking crazily over ten inch wide patches of dark clothing, to the accompaniment of cabbages being walloped on the soundtrack. Imagine if Bruce Lee tried to get away with this crap. And this wasn't a well considered case of indicating what had just happened by offering the impression of it rather than the depiction of it, it was simply a continuation of the house style.Quantum Of Solace takes anti-illuminating film-making to new, stupid lows!
__label__3 Dear God... speaking as a Bond fan, .. what the hell is this? I wanted to leave the cinema... that can't be right, surely? The editing... the editing,. do you want to make me ill? I wanted to enjoy another episode in the Bond franchise, I got some f*ck-paced nightmare vision of movie hell..., the hell were they thinking.I am a huge Bond fan, I recognise the faults but, at the same time, that's why I, and many others, like Bond.The f*ck is this? Bullsh*t.HorribleI liked Casino Royale What is this? Some p?sstake?
__label__3 Bond Review. Title: Sounds very odd, but kind of makes sense given the story.Pre-Titles: Bond is involved in a high-speed chase as he travels to Siena with Mr. White in his boot and just manages to escape his pursuers. This opening could have been brilliant, but it is filmed horribly and edited to within an inch of its life. Every cut lasts half a second, making impossible to tell what's actually going on and sucking any enjoyment out of what should be an exciting opening.Theme Song: The first Bond duet by Jack White and Alicia Keys is one to forget. The melody and composition are actually pretty good, but the singing and lyrics are woeful. White is totally out of place and Keys honestly sounds like a cat being strangled, put them together and its ear torture.Plot: Bond tracks an organisation named Quantum and hunts them down in a state of revenge. He quickly discovers that its leader, developer Dominic Greene, plans to drain the Bolivian water supply. The plot had the potential to be very exciting, but it is told in such a confusing and mundane way that you lose interest very fast. Part of it feels like a Bond revenge mission and the other part feels like an old-school world domination plot, and these two styles don't mix whatsoever. The whole story itself feels rushed and the characters are given no convincing development.James Bond: Daniel Craig is the best thing here, yet he can't keep the film afloat. He nails the brooding edge of the character once more and adds even more physicality to the role, while being compelling with his expressions. However there's no balance, as he is given poor dialogue and doesn't get a chance to show his charming side, making him come off as a little too gloomy.Bond Girls: Both Bond girls are simply boring. Olga Kurylenko is convincing as the emotionally damaged Camille but she gets nothing interesting to do, looks constantly angry and has no chemistry with Craig. Gemma Arterton at least has some fun as agent Fields, but she gets too little screen time to make an impact and just feels like a throwaway character.Villains: Words don't do justice to how dull a villain Dominic Greene. Making a shadier businessman type of villain isn't a bad idea, but he has no personality and is not remotely convincing as a threat in any way. He doesn't say anything memorable, he doesn't do anything worth remembering, he looks like a depressed diplomat and most of the time he stands around looking bored. Joaquin Cosio at least looks the part as Greene's supplier General Medrano and he is intimidating, but the character is only glossed over and his role seems shoehorned in.Support: Judi Dench is as solid as ever in an expanded role as M, but she is in the field way too much. Giancarlo Giannini makes a welcome return as Mathis and is amusing, but doesn't get much to do. Jeffrey Wright's is completely wasted as Leiter, all he does is drink and look indifferent.Action: The action is intense, but there's way too much of it and it's filmed dreadfully. We get a chase along rooftops, boat chases, helicopter chases and countless shots of Bond walloping people with all of it done in shaky cam which means you can't really tell what is happening. As a result you simply don't care what is going on. The climax is a good set-up at a desert hotel, but Bond's fight with Greene is pathetic and it quickly becomes explosions galore.Score: David Arnold provides another decent score. He offers a fitting backdrop to the rough approach of the film in many scenes and his slower tracks are appropriately moody. However it is a bit lacklustre compared to his previous efforts.Production Values: Foster deserves most of the blame here for his terrible directing. As said the action sequences are a mess, while the dialogue heavy scenes are shot blandly and the 'important' scenes don't feel remotely important. The editing is the other issue as the film looks like it was edited by a maniac. It is all just lightning quick cuts, close-ups of people looking really irritated and the incredibly annoying shaky cam tormenting our senses. The pace is all off as well and it feels like one long action scene, it's like the film cannot slow down and that results in nothing being given room to breathe or develop. The writing is simply terrible. Was Bond's mission engaging? No. Was the villain's scheme interesting? No. Where the characters well written? No. As a result it is so hard to care about anything on screen. The locations are all good, but there is way too much globe hoping going on and if it wasn't for the awkward cards telling you then I wouldn't have a clue where Bond was.Conclusion: If Casino Royale was an Aston Martin, then Quantum of Solace is like taking that Aston Martin and driving it into a brick wall. Everything that Casino Royale had done so well has been completely done away with for no reason at all. The characters are all boring and only capable of being angry, the action is one massive mess, the plot is ridiculous given this more grounded portrayal and Bond has gone from feeling like a real person to a crazed wrecking machine. I love the dark and intense Bond, but there has to either be some levity or a really intriguing premise because otherwise it just becomes a chore to get through otherwise and that is exactly what Quantum of Solace is.
__label__3 I caught this while on holidays but I won't give any extra details for obvious reasons.This will most likely go down as one of the most disappointing fantasty films of all time. I think Lord of the Rings is going to always be the best and hoped Narnia would at least come close but Prince Caspian has really dropped the Chronicles of Narnia. The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe was great but not groundbreaking. To be fair this movie was based on what I think was one of the worst books in the series. It was good but not as good as any of the others. Books can be expanded but not in a way which makes it completely boring. The action is dull and not interesting even though there's more of it but the visuals have improved. I liked the kids in the first movie but now they are already on my nerves especially the actor portraying Peter who came off as a snobby, insufferable bully. I hope that when Harry Potter ends the Chronicles of Narnia will be there to pick up all the fans but they need to radically improve. At least Michael Apted is doing the next one. Need IMPROVEMENT!
__label__3 I will admit that I like the first Narnia film, and was wanting this one to be just as good but for some reason it fell flat for me. Why (other than the fact that my daughter continued to tell me how 'Dreamy' Prince Caspian was) let me count a few of the ways. First off, it seems the poor Pevensie siblings will continue to be taken advantage of. Hey we need help lets blow this horn and bring those 4 kids back...then when all the fighting is done and the day is saved "Get the hell out of our magic kingdom" and they are sent back to their sad lives in their 'present' day. Why not let them stay with you? Wouldn't that be a small thanks for what they did? Second, the battle was trying too hard to be like Helms Deep on Lord of the Rings, at least thats the way it seemed to me. Third, after the failed castle siege attempt, all those Narnians get killed and all, then what do we see later? The same castle with the people that live in the castle throwing a happy parade for the returning Narnians. What the heck? First off, shouldn't everyone there be scared of them, apparently Narnians were just fables only a few days ago, plus the Narnians are the same ones who a day ago snuck in and killed your husbands/sons/fathers...and now you act like nothing is wrong? Forth, the Pevensie siblings are in the underground one second, then the next WHOOSH! They're in a strange land...and what is the first thing they think of? WATER FIGHT!!! Aren't you scared or curious as to where you are? How do you KNOW you're in Narnia all the sudden? Maybe you were wisked off to New Jersey? YOU DON'T KNOW! Fifth, if Aslan could have helped the Narnians from the start, then why did he purposely let them walk into a battle he knew they couldn't win without his help? He waited till how many of them had died senselessly till he decided to step in? Come on. There are just a few, but the movie on whole seemed to drag out and I found myself wanting it to end. Will I see this again? No. Will I buy this on DVD? No. Sorry Narnia, This just didn't do it for me. But the one thing I will take away from this is....Prince Caspian is Dreamy.
__label__3 I loved the first film and have watched it over and over with my daughter on DVD since we first saw it in the cinema. However, the Prince Caspian screenplay diverged so much from the book they might as well have given this film a different name.The sickly, contrived love interest between Caspian (a small boy in the book) and Susan was completely incongruous - especially as Ben Barnes (Caspian) is more wooden than a non-talking Narnian tree, however pretty he might be to look at. He wasn't the only poor actor, mind you. The four Pevensie children looked as though they shared my opinion of the script and couldn't get through it fast enough, while the villains were cardboard cutouts. Peter's mumbling in particular was shocking - you could hardly make out a complete sentence of his. The directors were completely high-handed with the plot and played fast and loose with Lewis's character development as well. The only acceptable aspect of the whole thing was the special effects and fight scenes, which were stunning.I hope they make a better fist of the Dawn Treader, or I will be summoning Aslan to roar their hides off!
__label__3 I giggled a few times. i think I wanted to giggle. I liked MIB. i liked the music, I liked the wit, the style, the fun premise that had always been there as an undercurrent in serious conspiracy films and nutty urban legends but never fully explored. i liked the hard drinking alien worms, the little witty twists- universes inside universes, the common sense street-cop who wins out against educated morons. It seems after the original they got stuck. They seemed to run out of things to say, so simply rehashed the old- the talking pug, universes inside train stations, regrowing alien heads and a storyline stolen from Jewel in the Nile. Here, in the third instalment, they ditched some of the more familiar supporting characters and while I might have applauded that since they already seemed old in the second instalment, they failed to replace them. We still have aliens and their ever-resilient heads in there, but there was a genuine attempt to move things to a fresher place. The time travel storyline should have been brilliant- this was when space/alien mania took off, the birthplace of nutty conspiracy theories combined with swinging sixties free loving, trippy hippy, bring your own bong culture, Get Smart gadgets and a man trying to save the world while being black! It was ripe...and it stank. Okay bad pun but this film deserves it. It's like you can see the chalk marks where they have started to draw in the plot, you can see where they're going, see them circling the joke, but the finished product is just not finished, it should still be sitting on the drawing board in this state. Will Smith appears to be free-winging it in the hope that eventually he'll brainstorm his way to the punchline- he doesn't get there but we do get to enjoy his working process.Jones plays a man who seems to have reached the end and is willing to embrace it....need I put in the obvious line?I'm not going to go into obvious plot spoilers, there are plot holes, always are with time travel, its really not an issue except when you end up sitting there thinking eh? You do a little here, but I think in many ways that is because the storyline is too simple. It makes no real attempt to address (or in the style of MIB, exploit and poke fun at), the inherent issues, such as the grandfather paradox, that inevitably come up with time travel, so that you feel as though you must have missed something.That in the end is what ruins this film. They have tried so hard to avoid the obvious, the cliché, the previous tricks of the franchise that they have left themselves with nothing but holes. The beauty of MIB was not that it avoided clichés but how it played with them, tweaking our expectations in tiny, but deliciously original ways. Without them we are simply left without.
__label__3 Ending was good, beginning good. The hour and twenty minutes in the middle dragged on and on and I was drinking caffeine.And I cant believe I have to give a review of 10 lines what else is there to say. Don't waste your money. The theater had 10 people in it on opening weekend. Tommy Lee looked very old in the movie. The jokes were just not funny. The review by Debby Does Politics of 3 Reagan's is ludicrous. At most 1 Reagan! She usually does a good job about here reviews. Now I'm just adding filler to this review to make it 10 lines long; but that's exactly what the movie did to make it 2 hours long; add filler and more filler. There were times when the actors just stared at each other and this is supposed to be entertainment? Please.
__label__3 Before seeing _The Battle of the Five Armies_ today, I told people, "The first two films lacked fidelity to the book, but this one should be better." I figured Jackson wouldn't have to add lots of extraneous invented action scenes because the final third of the book contained plenty of action.Boy, was I wrong.Unnecessary invented characters from the previous films continued to take up screen time in this one, and many new ones were added. Tolkien wouldn't recognize a bunch of grand-scale evildoers or various "good guys" whose relationships were supposed to tug at our hearts, though they turned my stomach instead.The additions included plenty of trite dialogue. When one invented character, in a scene made from whole cloth, was shown weeping over a loved one and asking "Why does it hurt so much?", I just about tossed my Junior Mints.Meanwhile, a character largely responsible for turning the tide in the book's Battle of Five Armies (note the lack of a "the" before "Five") was shown in the film, without explanation, for about three seconds. Blink and you might miss it.When one baddie was apparently killed, I thought, "If he suddenly jumps up and starts fighting again, I'm leaving." Too bad I didn't follow through on my threat after that excruciatingly predictable plot twist.Did I mention that Dain, confronting the elf warriors, came across as some nightmare parody of John Cleese performing "The Lord of the Fawlty Towers"?I could go on, but "travesty" is about the kindest word I can use for this mass of claptrap. I now fear that Jackson will film _The Silmarillion_, turning it into yet another tawdry, over-the-top CGI fest.
__label__3 Probably it's because I've seen the Tobey-Man and this is the reason I give this movie such a low score. I wanted to learn more about Peter's parents, but did not. "They were scientists." So what? That's not even 5% of what I needed to find out. Tobey-Man was on par with emotions, stunts and discovering the character. Here your uncle dies and what you see is 2 mins of drama about him. They really did not expand the characters and that led to my disappointment. This really isn't the spider-man I wanted to see (full of questioning, thoughts and hardship). This guy was crying one minute and kissing the girl in another. Did I even mention that the suit did not fully fit him? Did I mention that Peter became a super scientists in 5 mins after he start reading 2 books and a couple of documents that do not make sense? Since when kids study genetics in school so deeply? Tobey-Man's story deeper and more interesting. You could see the bright side of having super powers and the dark of constantly having the responsibility to hide your identity and take care of the closest. The new Spidey did little effort to hide his id. I could actually say that he was waving his mask the entire movie...If you were happy with Tobey-man, stick with him!
__label__3 I've been a fan of Spiderman since childhood. In fact, he has been my favorite superhero. I liked Spiderman 1, 2 and 3; watched Spiderman 3 twice, despite many reviewers bashing it.So it's natural I was waiting eagerly for The Amazing Spiderman. I was more eager because this movie was rebooting the Spiderman franchise with new cast that included Indian actor, Irfan Khan and it was getting released in India before US! Unfortunately, it turned out to be a big disappointment. It was like they didn't make a Spiderman movie, but a caricature-remake or a spoof of it. Bad script, confused and weak characters, bad direction and bad editing are some of the major flaws. Story was too bland, no spice, no excitement.The important scenes where Peter gets bitten or hones his skills or makes his suit have been hurried and short, while the irrelevant scenes have been dragged.Spiderman gets beaten, defeated, injured repeatedly. In fact, the audience was laughing hard on the repeated scenes of him coming home all thrashed and bruised and his aunt talking to him about it. He keeps removing his mask for just anybody and that's not very Spiderman-like.Most action scenes were non-thrilling. In a scene where Spiderman rescues a boy from a falling and burning car, he wastes almost 5 minutes trying to convince Jack (the boy) to be brave, climb up and hold his hand. He even gives the boy his mask, but the boy doesn't follow him. So in the end he has to throw his spider-thread to pull Jack up. He could have done that already and spared us of that boredom.It was just an example. Most encounters between the lizard-man and Spiderman were equally boring, dragged and nonsensical.There were a lot of loose ends and missing links in the story. Like the story of Peter's parents was never shown, but the characters kept mentioning it. Dr. Ratha talks about some Mr. Osbourne, but neither the man nor his story was shown. Maybe they're keeping it for the sequel, but the confusion totally spoiled this movie. A lot of inconsistencies were there too. Sometimes things stick to Peter's hands and break by little force, sometimes they don't.The romance between Peter/Spiderman and Gwen looked lukewarm and forced. The scene where the burglar kills Peter's uncle looked awkward and disconnected like many other scenes.Andrew Garfield didn't look much convincing either as nerdy Peter Parker or as Spiderman. He was good in The Social Network but a disappointment in this movie. In many body-close-up shots he was bending forward apparently to hide his penis-line from showing in the tight-suit. That made the already weak Spiderman look even weaker. Since when have Hollywood actors become this bashful?Irfan Khan appeared in just 3 short scenes. He was more like an extra. But the audience welcomed him with a bout of whistling!Everyone seemed to be waiting anxiously for the movie to end, which ends after further boring you for some time after the defeat of the villain. So much I wish, they had made Spiderman 4 with Tobey Maguire instead of this disaster.I might as well watch Rajnikant's Robot now
__label__3 I don't like to be the downer on this movie, but I've just got back from watching it at my local cinema and I've already forgotten about it! I was expecting good things, 215 million spent on the movie, Emma Stone (big fan), Andrew Garfield (up and coming, great in Social Network) and Martin Sheen as a co-star, come on it should have been better.I got lost in the lack of a plot, it felt like it all happened over a day or two, the acting was limited, even Emma Stone only seemed to convince in a few scenes. At times it was as if I'd gone back in time and was stuck watching the Hulk again! please, please, not again! It just seemed so mixed up,there were a few, and when I say a few, I mean more than two! decent scenes! a couple of jokes thrown in, but then it was back to mediocre, what the heck happened to Denis Leary, after Rescue Me, you'd think that this guy could act now.For me, and this is only my humble opinion, it was a bid disappointment that made me wonder why I went in the first place. Once again Hollywood got me, with their big budget advertising machine. But maybe it's me, IMDb's never wrong is it? and maybe, just maybe, as I didn't watch it in 3D and could see the movie this time, I'm wrong!
__label__3 I don't have an argument that Spider-Man's origin story didn't need to be remade for I've seen plenty of very decent to mediocre reboots before. But, what makes this a worthless remake was that it backtracked on all that was good before it.Heart, soul, good soundtrack, excellent score, acting, chemistry, heroism, humor and quotable dialogue were present in the original Spider-Man movies – and yeah, even #3. This movie lacked ALL of those. Heck, it even deleted one of the main characters and often hilarious: J. Johan Jameson. Shame.I was even willing to over look the obvious first hour or so that inevitably retold the same old story of pansy Parker, a love interest, the bullies, the Aunt & Uncle, the spider bite, the transformation and the first try-outs. Without anyone (and I guess me now) spoiling that, we all knew that was coming. But, what I didn't foresee was how blah it all was going to be. How boring and trite.And pleasePLEASE do not let the advertisements fool you into filling a seat for a movie you've seen before: "The Untold Story" was about as revealing as finding out about Ellen Ripley's all-but irrelevant daughter in the director's cut of Aliens.What the movie is trying to tell us is that Spider-Man is a hero, that he loves Gwen Stacy and that, despite how great the Hulk looked in The Avengers, a giant lizard man can look real on screen using 1996's technology. No apologies: I didn't buy any one of these things the script displayed. In fact, it showed so much and yet, so much felt left out. So many story lines began and either faded or we're given half-ass explanations.Don't get me wrong; I didn't full-on hate on The Amazing Spider-Man. Of the approximately 20 minutes (of 136) of screen time Spidey was on the screen, he lookeddecent, albeit the shots still looked like deleted scenes from the previous series. And even though Tobey Maguire spun webs around Andrew Garfield's Parker, he still did a good job. I will even give it to both the script and Garfield: Spider-Man's signature sarcasm was funnier this time around.Is it redundant to give the synopsis since I already reviewed the 10-year-old original? Yes, except this time around instead of a green bad guy from Oscorp being human, this one had a green bad guy from Oscorp being a laughable CGI Godzilla offspring. Oh, and as much as I love Emma Stone, her character, Gwen Stacy, first introduced in Spider-Man 3, was so lifeless, you'd have to miss Kirsten Dunst's Mary Jane.I simply cannot recommend this movie. Again, of the 136 minutes, 40 were good, but that did not outweigh the bad-3-D effects or 96 other slow-paced, unoriginal and uninspiring minutes.
__label__3 I went to see Robin Hood with an open mind. I didn't read any of the reviews, I didn't watch any of the previews, and early on I thought that it was a pretty good film with a few loose ends that would surely be wrapped up by the ending. I was wrong. Nothing got wrapped up and there were so many plot holes and loose ends that left this movie a disaster of a film. Here are just a few examples:1) Who are the kids in the forest with The Strangers masks on their faces? 2) What happened to Prince John's first wife? We see her looking through a keyhole at her husband in bed with another woman but that's it. John tells his mother that he has written to the pope seeking an annulment but his mother tells him that it will never be granted. So happened to her? 3) Early on, the priest who is leaving Nottingham to deliver the grain tells Marion Loxley that she can't have the grain because "she reaps what she sows." What did Marion Loxley, other than conveniently leaving all her grain in a storage shed outside the main walls, do to deserve this "reap what you sow" punishment? 4) Robin comes to Nottingham and schemes with the Loxley's to pretend to be Robert Loxley who has been gone for 10 years. No one in the village catches on so we are to believe that EVERYONE in Nottingham either a) are new to Nottingham and didn't know Robert Loxley before he left or b) conveniently forgot what Robert Loxley looked like? 5) Robin tells us that his motivation for returning to England is to seek land and fortune. He's there to take advantage of the situation. Marion Loxley has him sleeping on the floor with dogs and they have no apparent relationship other than keeping up with the scheme that Robin is Robert Loxley. Why then does Robin go out of his way and risk life and fortune to help Marion get her grain back?6) Robin gets the grain back and we see a small group of them casually tossing the grain around on the ground. When Marion Loxley wakes from her afternoon nap Robin tells her that her fields have been planted all 5,000 acres?? 7) If you want to remember forgotten things from your childhood all you have to do is close your eyes and vivid flashbacks will suddenly appear. 8) The French had landing craft Saving Private Ryan style in the 12th century? 9) We see an army of horsemen riding fast through the mountains to get to the beach to meet the French landing craft. Before they go down to the beach they decide the horsemen will ride to the beach and foot archers will fire from the cliff side. What archers? In the battle scene we see thousands of arrows striking down the French on the beach? Where did they come from because they obviously didn't ride in with the horsemen? Did they fly in on helicopters? 10) Before the battle on the beach against the French I thought, "This is going to be a slaughter." It was. That is supposed to be interesting how? 11) Where is England's standing army? You know the tens of thousands of men in red uniforms with swords, bows and arrows, cavalry, pikes, and all that shiny equipment like we saw in the movie Braveheart? 12) We see Prince John an arrogant young man with a mistress in his bed early in the movie, then he confidently fires William Marshal and sets Godfrey off to the north with an army to collect taxes. Then when civil war "unexpectedly" sets off Godfrey is suddenly "not the friend that he thought he was" and John seeks to unify the angry mob because England conveniently doesn't have a standing army. Robin interrupts the meeting, gives a little speech, and they all ride off to war together. Then before the beach battle scene we see that John is useless because although he is suppose to be leading the army he doesn't know how to place the troops and instead relies on William Marshal to make a battle plan. In the battle we see that John is just a bumbling idiot, swinging his sword around randomly even after the battle is over. But in the VERY next scene we see that John is confident again, going against his word to sign the charter and declaring Robin to be an outlaw. Will the real King John please stand up? 13) Somehow on the battle on the beach, even though they were just fighting victoriously along side one another, we are supposed to believe that King John is jealous of Robin because the French surrendered to him? King John asks William Marshal, "Who did the French surrender to?" and William Marshal points to Robin. The thing is, it seemed to me that the French didn't surrender to anyone. The King of France ordered his boat to turn around so they could "fight another day". Was the whole "they surrendered to Robin" just thrown in to move the plot along? 14) How did King John determine that Robin was lying about his identity?15) What is the motivation for the kids with The Strangers masks on their faces? Early on they are evil looking thieves who steal the grain from Marion Loxley but by the end of the movie they are little ninja warriors on ponies fighting not just alongside Marion, but being led by her.
__label__3 It can't be much fun being an Orc, can it? Not only is your acne so bad you're unlikely to get a girlfriend, but you spend your whole life trying to kill hobbits and dwarfs who are, for all intents and purposes, immortal. Maybe it's only bad ugly Orcs that do the chasing. Maybe there some more appealing Orcs running an organic farm in Orcshire.Even when they manage to give one of the dwarfs a nick on the leg which, of course, with Orc poison means certain death, he only needs a bit of rub with the special green stuff and he's right as reign. What happened to certain death? Being a dwarf is only marginally better. None of them are allowed a discernible character, and, apart from the clashing accents, they're entirely interchangeable. It might have been better to call them something like Bashful, Doc, Dopey, Grumpy, Happy, Sleepy and Sneezy. That would at least have given them some sort of character and a potential character arc. Sneezy might benefit, for example, from a lesser known property of the Arkenstone, which is clearing up sinus problems.Apart for the main dwarf (who wants to get the Arkenston, but will its power turn him evil? - anybody care?) and the good looking normal-size dwarf, who gets the fatal cut on his knee, but survives in order to get off with the only woman in the whole of Middle-Earth - doesn't this lack of women suggest a bit of population renewal issue here. How is Peter Jackson going to be able to produce his next trilogy when everyone's died of old age? I'm not sure the whole small-size thing ever worked in any of the Hobbit films. There was some stuff between Gandalf and Frodo at the beginning that almost did it, but after that the dwarfs never seemed very small, and nor did the hobbits. And of course the Hobbit hairy feet thing never convinced – they just look like a pair of unconvincing hairy slippers from the Pound Shop.Wizards would seem to have the most going for them. They are old and they are wise – apart from the bad ones of course who are old, wise and nasty. Wizards present a slightly harder issue plot wise, because, put them into any seemingly impossible situation, for example, I don't know, hanging off a tower in an iron cage, and all they have to do is go, 'Piff Paff' and they're away. You can't even kill them. Gandalf gets killed by the Balrog in LOTR1, and, Piff Paff, he's back as Gandalf the White in LOTR 2. If he gets killed again he's still got green, red, and blue to go. No wonder Orcs are so bad-tempered – it's like England playing Australia.Smaug the Dragon does look pretty impressive at the cost of a few million dollars although Ray Harryhausen did better with twenty quid and some plasticine and wire. Still, at least the dragon looks good. Trouble is, he never stops droning on and, even though can blast fire out of his nostrils with the power of six flame throwers, he's a totally useless shot and nobody gets so much as a flaming bum.And I have to say the dwarfs idea of killing the dragon is a bit convoluted considering they're making it up as they go along. The plan is, to get the dragon to fire up to the old furnace by standing in front of him, so when he totally misses them AGAIN he accidentally starts the fire burning. Then they have to channel the molten gold into a mold of a big warrior and then they're going to melt him down again, and cover the dragon with the molten gold. 'Couldn't we just stab him?' No you can't, 'cause we've need at least another fifteen minutes of the dragon totally missing everyone.And even after all that he doesn't die, just flaps his wings a couple of times and off he goes – he's worse than Gandalf. It's almost as if Peter Jackson said, 'Oh no, we've killed the dragon and we've got another three hour film to make before next Christmas.'But we've just buried him in molten gold.' 'Never mind that, I need him back. Oh I know, maybe he can just jump out of the molten gold and shake it all off like water off a wet dog' 'Yeah, that'll do it.' And there's an awful lot of stuff that seems just tacked on to fill time: For example there's the boatman bloke, who Steven Fry doesn't like and neither does his a cockney assistant. Lake Town is full of extras going, 'I really hope his kills the dragon don't you.' 'Gosh yes. Hurray for the Dwarfs!! 'Shall we do a little dance. People might do that if they were sending dwarfs off to fight dragons off, mightn't they?' Not wishing to put you off next year's The Hobbit: Three More Hours of Rushing About Pointlessly but, on top of the town hall at Lake Town, there's a giant catapult thing and the Boatman has a special arrow: The-Only-Thing-That-Can-Kill-Dragons-Special-Arrow. I wonder what on Middle-Earth is going to happen in Episode Three? But before that, we've got the four and half out extended edition of The Hobbit: The Despair Of Smaug At Ever Hitting Anyone on Blue Ray to look forward to. In this version, the dwarfs do some more running, and the Orcs do some more chasing, and Smaug does some more missing, and when the dwarfs come back in the boat, there's a real tiger on board, and maybe they can go to this island when there's a huge monkey or where meddling scientists have created real dinosaurs I tell ya. I can hardly wait
__label__3 I was so excited to see this movie. I have read all the books and absolutely love them. I think Pullman is ingenious. The material was all there for another epic fantasy film, just waiting for a great director to pick it up...Unfortunately, no such thing happened. I am a little confused as to why Chris Weitz (director of films like American Pie and Down to Earth) was allowed to director this. He was clearly the wrong choice. The movie, which I did not expect to follow the book exactly due to limited time, appeared to make no effort to tell Pullman's wonderful tale through images. The screenplay was poorly written and seemed to be dumbed down for a six year old, yet the movie's rated PG-13. There was no intrigue. It was choppy and fast paced. There was no sense of story development. Characters and scenes were switched around, and a major part of the book was cut out entirely! This makes absolutely no sense to me (especially since the previews for the movie allude to this part that's cut out being in it). Nope. Instead, the movie stops short with a terribly corny scene and forced dialogue, making no effort to hide the fact that the movie is concluding. When seeing a special premiere of this on Dec. 2, I can recall the entire audience letting out a groan as the movie ended (a few viewer's even booed). Even if one had not read the books, as two of my friends who saw the movie with me had not, I believe they would still be utterly disappointed. From a film standpoint, it was very poorly done. There was an exorbitant use of CG, making the movie appear artificial. Every time Lyra went to read the alethiometer, there were some special effects implying Lyra's ability to see things in her mind (because of the alethiometer), which is not how it happens in the book (this being one of many examples). I was hoping that for a movie such as this one, there would be an incredible score to help mount emotions, but I was in for another disappointment. The musical score was dry, flat, and did nothing to enhance viewing. The one thing that I did like about the movie was the choice of Lyra. I thought Dakota Blue Richards did a wonderful job as a newcomer, in a role that demanded several complex emotions. She executed the character perfectly and it's unfortunate that the movie did not match her perfection. Other cast members (Eva Green, Jim Carter, Sam Elliot) did a good job as well, but did not have enough screen time to really be appreciated. As for Kidman and Craig, I was not thrilled with their portrayals of Coulter and Asriel. In the end, I think people who have read and appreciated the books who go see this movie will be overwhelmingly disappointed, and those who have not read the books will be confused and dissatisfied as well. In comparison to films like Narnia, where the director knew how to take the time to produce a work of art with effective dialogue, scenery, musical score, mix of real and CG characters, and storytelling, the Golden Compass (unfortunately) doesn't even hold a candle.
__label__3 The Golden Compass was one of the most anticipated films of the year. With a budget well north of $150 million and a best seller as source material, expectations were high. Despite all of the debate about the His Dark Materials books, the trailers made this film look like an awesome adventure fantasy. All I can say is ----- yawn.Yes, some of the visuals work, but most look like set pieces. The integration level for many effects is low. Despite similar budgets, LOTR blows this film out of the water on every level. Compare any battle scene in LOTR with any battle scene in The Golden Compass and you will see what I mean. I never felt that Lyra was ever truly in peril.The worst problem is the storyline. Screenwriter Chris Weitz significantly deviates from Pullman's book -- stopping very short of the dramatic conclusion of the first book in Pullman's series. I know that he was ordered to tone down the anti-Christian content of the novels, but instead of merely sanitizing the screenplay, he leaves out the climax. The scenes feel disjointed and you never get a chance to really care about any of the characters.There are a lot of transition/traveling scenes and director Chris Weitz (yes, he bears double blame for this disaster) commits the ultimate cinema sin -- he spends too much time telling and not enough time showing. Even the scenes with the alethiometer become repetitive and tiresome.Dakota Blue Richards does a creditable job as Lyra Bellaqua, but those expecting Daniel Craig (as Lord Asriel) to have much screen time will be horribly disappointed. He barely appears. Christian groups will not have to do any picketing to make this film tank. I cannot imagine anyone wanting to sit through it twice. Once was more than enough for me. Don't waste the money -- certainly not full price. If you want to see a truly magical film this holiday season, see Enchanted instead.
__label__3 Having seen the Golden Compass I can honestly say Im hoping they don't make a follow up.The story was truncated beyond the necessity involved in translating a book to film, the intricacies of the characters (especially Lyra) were swept over with a series of single scene expositions, that despite the talents of all the actors involved failed to accurately portray their persona's or motivations.Whether or not you agree with Pullmans subtext in the book or not, the film failed miserably to deliver any semblance of the authors story.On the plus side the Daemons and other effects were expertly achieved, fantastically voiced. The actors did their best with what came across as a disjointed, amateurish script. Key plot hocks were evaded, key sub text elements were missing and the directors clear priority of not offending any member of a dogmatic organised religion shone through the entire production.In a few words: Great actors and effects in an unworthy script that was neither a faithful production of Pullmans work nor anything other than a flawed attempt to achieve box office takings.
__label__3 From a conversation with a friend, I have decided it is unfair to judge a film such as King Kong differently from a film like the Shawshank Redemption. A lot of people had said 'This is supposed to be an entertaining film, stop being so critical' but I think thats a very poor way to judge. Why shouldn't I expect such a high calibre film in the first place? King Kong stumbles at many points before it falls completely head over arse. Given the sheer weight of Kong himself, you can see the comedy value of this, but I don't give films credit for being unintentionally humorous.Firstly, I admit that the film is very well set up. The 1930's vibe is given perfectly by the introduction, and when we are introduced to Jack Black's character the whole buzz and excitement of shooting an exciting film is captured. From this however, the film begins to sag due to several factors, starting with two that contradict each other.The problem is with King Kong that not a lot actually happens. Secondly, a huge problem for this film is that far too much happens. This probably makes no sense, so let me explain. The film has three main chapters it can be broken into, New York, Skull Island, back to New York. Whilst the first as already stated is impressive enough, the second is quite a painful adventure to say the least. The film feels like it has been artificially extended with filler material, or putting it another way its like ordering a huge steak only to find its mostly gristle. What the audience is treated to is a number of boring CGI sequences and chases that occur one after another, most of which is not relevant to progressing the plot in the slightest. I am fed up of CGI sequences in films, they just make you instantly think 'I'm watching a film'. Jurrasic Park was far more convincing, and it still is, not to mention Jurrasic Park is over ten years old now. One chase scene involving running dinosaurs in a canyon has the ever increasing in number party weaving through their legs. Not only was I embarrassed at this, but I couldn't help thinking if the scene wasn't so over the top it could of been far more dramatic (ala the jeep chase in Jurassic Park). On the other hand, this chase has one of the most unintentionally funny moments in film history, which is when the dinosaurs fall over on top of one another. Think those 'funny' home movie shows showing people falling over on an ice rink set to epic 'lord of the rings' music, and you might get the same sort of idea of 'Trying to be epic / exciting' but failing miserably.Remember when I said 'Too much happens?', well this is what I meant. It's like the film 'xXx', just one long continuous mind numbing stunt. Too much of just about everything is forcibly crammed into the long 3 hours that makes you care far less about the outcome. Imagine a horror film with someone dies a 'gruesome' death every 3 minutes. Not nearly as suspenseful or scary as a film with hardly any deaths is it? A case of 'less is more' was needed with this film, and Peter Jackson failed to realise that.The film is filled with many horrible continuity errors which add to the disappointment of this film. For a starter, how many people can they fit into those two rowing boats they journey to skull island on? More and MORE people keep showing up to have some boring / gruesome death. You can almost pick out who is going to die from the start as well. The whole 'captain' and 'prodigy' relationship is painfully predictable. Also, where the hell did the natives go? All disappeared apparently.I guess my biggest problem with the film is that is the one which is most obvious. If you can't tell already, its an incredibly boring film that could be easily cut down to under the 2 hour mark. Its purely self indulgent of Peter Jackson to string it out so long when there was so little to say. I was almost screaming "Why wont you DIE?!" at the screen in its final sequence, which is strung out so long I discovered I had in fact grown a beard by the time it had finished.Speaking on its behalf, its fair to say when back in New York, I did have a fair bit of sympathy for Kong when he was chained up, and I did get the feeling that man was the true monster after all. So something went right when this movie was made. However, this is nowhere near enough to save it.Over-hyped, overlong, over-indulgent are just some words I would use to describe this film. I guess one thing can be said about this film to sum it up: This film would of been canned by the critics if it wasn't a remake.You have been warned...
__label__3 With the technology available for special effects, this could have been a great movie. Unfortunately, it wasn't. Sadly, this movie just proves the point that good effects do not a good movie make.What happened here is that a film with enough plot to last for the time of the original was stretched out to try fill 3 hours of screen time, and the result is disastrous. In addition, it's pretty clear that CGI nerds and video game designers had way too much input into this atrocity.It can all be summarized with a top 10 list of the worst scenes/mistakes of the movie:10. The time wasting, overly long, irrelevant plot line surrounding Ann Darrow, the old man, and the theater getting closed down. Not pertinent to the story. 9. The CGI nerd focus on the spinning airplane wheels on the fighter planes. Someone said "Isn't this the coolest thing you've ever seen?". It only lasted a few seconds, but it was there only because some GIGANTIC nerd wanted it in. Guess what? It's NOT cool.8. The plot line surrounding Jimmy and Mr. Hayes. Unnecessary, irrelevant, and ultimately unresolved. Why was Hayes protective of Jimmy? Did Jimmy go on to make something of himself? We never know. Why did anyone have to know he read "Heart of Darkness" or any of the other nonsense that was discussed between them? Total waste of time, stalls the story. 7. Kong violently shaking Ann around after he gets to his home turf, and her suffering no ill effects. She'd be not only injured, but dead. Kong was supposed to be gentle with Ann, duh. Totally missed the point. 6. The time wasting, overly long, irritating scenes where Kong repeatedly roars for no good reason. CGI nerds/effects people are responsible, I'm certain. They obviously took over the whole movie. Probable discussion: "Isn't the roar the coolest thing you've ever seen/heard? Let's use it 47 times!" 5. The completely ludicrous scene where Kong smashes the stolen taxi but Driscoll (inside) isn't even scratched. Guess what? That's right, he'd be dead. Come on, you can at least TRY to make this thing believable.4. The completely awful scene where Kong fights 3 T-Rexes while holding Anne in his hand. For the love of God, she'd be killed instantly. At least the original had the sense to have him put her down to fight the tyrannosaurus, a key element ignored in the remake, here and elsewhere in the movie. They also miss the point about the planes holding back when Kong is holding Ann, see above. Point missed.And the top 33. The incredibly preposterous and insulting scene where Jimmy shoots all the CGI nerd created insects off of Driscoll. Shuts his eyes while firing, and hits all the bugs. It wasn't just reminiscent of Jar-Jar Binks in the big battle with the gun stuck on his tail, it WAS Jar-Jar Binks in the big battle with the gun stuck on his tail. Totally unacceptable. 2. The even more preposterous and more insulting and asinine Brontosaurus stampede scene. This one almost takes the cake for worst scene in movie history, if not for the next one. Beyond ridiculous, totally unbelievable, video-game quality. Graphics cheesy and unrealistic. CGI nerds were probably slapping high fives seeing how many asinine near-miss, "Raptor almost gets the character before being stomped by the brontosaurus", Tom and Jerry scenes they could create. Asinine beyond belief. 1. The horrible, horrible ridiculous scene where Kong and Ann et all are falling through the vines, getting caught repeatedly by new vines swinging out, not getting injured, falling again, caught by another swinging vine, not getting injured, etc. Vines pendulum-like swinging with the monster almost gobbling Ann up, only to be just out of reach, repeatedly. This didn't belong in "King Kong", it belonged in "Donkey Kong Jr.".If you removed all this irrelevant nonsense, what would remain might not have been that bad. It would probably be quite good, in fact. Sadly, it was left in. It's hard to imagine how insufferable a DVD "Director's Cut" could be.On the positive side, Naomi Watts was excellent, as was Jack Black. The acting in general was a positive, no real complaints there. And the animation of Kong himself was excellent. Very well done. Sadly though, very little of the movie involved acting. It was all about making it a big video game and putting in all the effects. The effects are not themselves the movie, they are there to support the movie!To summarize, there were a lot of good pieces, but there were also a lot of bad ones. Ultimately too many were used, and a lot of them did not belong.
__label__3 The story goes, Marvel runs out of ideas. They got excellent stuff shown in the first movie, then something lesser in the second one, and then the third one was like - somebody damn insisted on making it, even though there was no story written...When the evil is all defeated, the continuation is not due till the next movie, and all avengers are simply bored, in the shortage of anything interesting going on, why not have all the heroes beating the crap out of each other? That should do the trick, and keep the sheep happy.The movie has no story, its conflict is superficial and borderline idiotic, even for the way the avengers split into two groups had no logic in it, and, of course, no explanation. They just really wanted to flex their muscles, and so they did, period.
__label__3 So Disneys: Marvels: Avengers: Captain America: Civil War was basically a pile of garbage. The fight scene with Spidey and Ant Man and the introduction of Black Panther were the only real redeeming factors.It failed as a movie and it failed as an adaptation of the comic series. One thing that really made me think that it failed as an adaptation is that while I sided with Stark in the comics, I can't help but to side with Captain America in the movie. If the adaptation was even vaguely faithful or decent my opinion should have stayed unchanged.But ignoring the original work, because the movie has to be judged on its own merits as well, it was pretty darn bad. The funeral scene was so cheesy, out of place and just bad that I actually briefly considered walking out. I couldn't believe I'd spent so much money to see this movie at the theatre.My opinion of this movie would probably be quite a bit better if they actually had the guts to kill off a single character in Civil War. When nobody is going to die and we all know it, all the drama and suspense are just instantly gone. It immediately goes from watching a tense battle sequence that could change the whole cinematic universe to a pretty light show.And the big climactic battle between Iron Man, Captain America and Bucky in Civil War was so dark you can't tell what's going on for half of the scene. That is a cardinal sin in film making. If you can't tell what the heck is happening, the scene is pointless and uninteresting.I obviously have a lot more gripes with this 250 million dollar mistake but I don't feel like writing an essay and nobody would read a review that long and detailed anyway. It would probably take longer for me to explain all of the issues I had with the film than it would for you to just watch it and decide for yourself, but I can't say I'd recommend doing that.This is perhaps the worst entry into the MCU, barring only The Incredible Hulk. This movie was so bad I'd even rank it under Thor 2 and Captain America: The First Avenger in the ever-growing list of Marvel missteps.
__label__3 There are 3 hugely anticipated block-busters this year and Battleship was the first one to be released. I had expectations of watching this at that cinema a few times and getting it on blue ray - this is my type of movie!; or at least that was the expectation. With such great promotional footage and Liam Neeson heading the cast, it had to be great. In reality, Neeson has almost a bit part (in fact you see most of it in the promotional adverts), clearly there to increase sales of the movie; with the bulk of the 'acting' coming from Taylor Kitsch.A ludicrous start with Kitsch playing a 27 year loser who, on the recommendation of his brother (Alexander Scarsgard) joins the Navy, suddenly to become at Lt Cdr - The script is clearly written by someone with no military knowledge or experience and that the actions, demeanour and interaction with all that are supposed to be military personnel, is a non sense. It makes Top Gun look believable! However, it gets worse;with aliens that have made there way to earth with great looking craft,that impressively rise from the ocean (great CGG) - you see it on the commercials for the movie, the only weapon they possess are melee type Armour - pretty ridiculousreally and by this point the movie has lost any form of credibility. The outcome is obvious from the first few minutes and I certainly wouldn't go back for a repeat viewing. It's still probably worth a watch if you can't resist, but don't buy any pop corn; there's enough corn in this movie!
__label__3 There is a young, handsome (I suspect), super skillful man, a charismatic guru. There is a young, pretty woman, a bit retarded and limited in her interests, often career-oriented. Monsters comes, people die, only a handsome superhero can save a day. A girl changes her shoes and/or shirt and becomes a superwoman in about 30 seconds, instantly gets expertise in gymnastics, combat, weapons handling, strategy and kills monsters together with a handsome guru (although the monsters had no problem with killing 1000 heavily armed troopers. Or maybe it is all that eating that made monsters slower?).The above is a screenplay for most of action/adventure/SF movies during the last 5-10 years. Doesn't matter if it is a new episode of Star Wars, or Jurassic Park, or Aliens, or some Passengers, or Interstellar - there are some superficial, cosmetic changes, but when I watch it all I can see no differences. It can be set in a jungle or in space, the clothes differ, the monsters can be humans, maybe there is a slight change in the roles played. But there is never any depth, no real personalities, no emotions, no basic logic. It is just colorful, fast, shimmering and loud. Am I getting older? Perhaps. If so, I am really happy and proud that I am not young if it means that I would have to have a brain capable of enjoying such a crap.
__label__3 A dull monster movie without ideas, with all the imaginable problems: recycled soundtrack from the previous three film, poor visual effects (the '93 film was indeed better even under this aspect, and that says it all), horrible "dinosaurs" that look more Godzilla than "true" animals (and yes, it's a very serious problem that these animals don't look or/and act as real animals, at least as they're conceived to be in XXI century and not in '40s), badly-written dialogs (with a sort of "love story" that is embarrassing), characters (dull not to say stupid) and plot. All this problems all in once, and without any decency. To conclude there are the two boys, the most boring and annoying characters in the Hollywood's history.
__label__3 Dull, cliche ridden, hackneyed, predictable, stupid and those are the reasons I give it a 3 instead of lower. The characters do predictable stupid things over and over.. Is there danger? Yes so RUN OUT IN THE OPEN instead of going inside. As the dino's are attacking we see people running OUT of buildings right into the path of the toothy dinos.And of course there is ALWAYS an SUV, or Quad right at hand when our hero's need one... keys in it of course... yet all the screaming people have been running right by them rather then jumping in and driving the hell away.Yes, it's a movie but can't we keep at least some reality of physics in dino stories. It is NOT possible for ANY flesh and blood animal to swing it's arms and tails around and smash thru huge concrete columns and turn them to dust without doing massive damage to their own body. Yet time and again the arms and tails go swinging and knocking down multiple foot thick concrete stuff.And really, you are going to take out these dinos with assault rifles? Of course the assault rifles are worthless but someone did have the sense to bring ONE grenade launcher with them which blows up dino's just in the nick of time. And of course we wouldn't want to give away our position although we do shine laser gun sights right at the dino which would lead them straight back to where the gun holder is.How on god's green earth this movie gets 10's is beyond me. Even if you ignore the stupidity, etc it is SO predictable that there is not a moment of suspense in the whole thing.
__label__3 My 1st review! I was so disgusted with this film&annoyed critics praised it I cracked and had a rant. Numerous Plot holes, contrivances, poor storytelling, character logic&motivation;1. The stolen agent list macguffin; Made famous in M:I then overused in films&TV shows; CharliesAngels2 etc - halfway through the film they just forgot about it2. Hacking magic! Hacking can be done well; goldeneye,swordfish,diehard4...Not just an easy contrived plot device. Can we have a proper explanation &the rules&limitations of Silva's hacking ability in this fiction? For all I know Silva can make satellites fall on people.3. The irony of the 'can Bond operate in an internet world' theme...he failed twice and got M killed...so he can't? 4. How out of place the above theme is; Bond is mature but always current. His a walking encyclopedia (watch the start of any Connery/Moore film). In the last 2 films he was using advanced mobile phone tracking systems...adding hacking does not suddenly make Bond take on the 'modern' age. Are economics or funding civilwars outdated?There was hacking&computers in 1995's Goldeneye..all of a sudden, NOW, there are no more shadows? Did MI6 stop evolving in the late eighties?5.They have a meeting to discuss MI6? This was relevant in Batman, a vigilante was trying to inspire people- It was intertwined in the narrative&theme. Skyfall enquiry was just Sam Mendes ripping off Batman6. Silva's planned capture; Another overused device that was coincidently in Batman. So what did Silva achieve? A conversation with M? When this is revealed shouldn't we look back and have everything make sense? But, NO, I was left wondering why they tried to kill Bond twice in China.7. Why was a hacker in a cell controlled by a computer? Why is Q so stupid he plugged in the laptop to the building? Why was the trap door on the inside of the first glass door? why was there a trap door? How did Silva evade an armed MI6 guard 20 meters from his cell?8. Super calculating (hack crazy)Silva's plan at the end was a firefight? With a backup plan of another firefight?9. So they figured out Silva was dressed as a cop and no-one told anyone? The irony of M defending herself (reading a poem) knowing her own ex agent was about to shoot up the place was lost on critics&writers alike.10. Could Bond not take a Sim free phone or'radio' &call backup when Silva arrived at the end? Instead they had their Home Alone moment- even Macaulay Culkin eventually called the police11. Silva is supposed to mirror Bond. But compare Bond's 'betrayal' to Silva being handed over for torture... Some forced connection is made considering they never met before. Silva tells a story of 2rats so we know what we are supposed to think.12. Bond's betrayal is M ordering Naomi to take a risky shot. Bond later tell's M he heard the order... why didn't he get out the way then? he just kept fighting like an idiot. &did Naomi only have 1 bullet?13.You can't make Bond survive 2 gun shots and a fall like that. His already an established character. The Punisher&Bourne are special BECAUSE they survive. It can't happen to them again mid film/ mid franchise.. 14. Bond follows an assassin&lets him kill innocent people! How is this in his character?! The previous 2 films already rebooted Bond to show WHY he doesn't let innocents die.15. Naomi is a forced character..appearing randomly to remind us she still exists so we can think it's 'clever' when she becomes Moneypenny. Money penny gets demoted from field agent to secretary?!! not even analyst. If she is that hopeless why is she on the most important mission ever? I think Sam Mendes hates women. 16. Bond doesn't even blink when the girl he just bedded a few hours ago gets shot in cold blood. He identifies Severine as being sex trafficked&abused- He then just jumps in her shower. I had little problem with Bond tricking a woman into bed in live and let die- but the sky-fall scene should land him in the S-offenders list. 17.They traced the shrapnel in Bond's chest to a 'special'bullet that only 3 people use? His a 'ghost'...but we have his full flight manifesto. This is how they advanced the plot? wait a minute....didn't that bad guy shoot up half of turkey..? A contrivance& a plot hole in one plot device, that takes some doing.18. One minute he can't shoot...10 seconds later he shoots everyone in a 360 arc? so what happened? oh we are just abandoning that theme mid- se.. 19. Quite a few instances of Bond just standing in front of a landscape shot with his legs apart 'being deep'. I thought he was urinating at first. 20. Q is both a quartermaster&a programmer for the sake of the illogical theme.. but these are completely different skill sets...?21. Knowing all this...what is the list doing in Turkey? on a laptop hardrive? why are only 2-3 agents on the case? They couldn't even do the liberty of making something up for the audience. Imagine Thunderball didn't show how SPECTRE got the nukes...Why couldn't Silva just hack the list? Oh because it isn't connected to the internet you say...but the MI6 heating system is?The script makes no sense, the themes are inappropriate, Bond's character&decision making has been altered &they have confused mature with dinosaur. Die another Day was almost a Bond parody, but this one is simply a mess,&a betrayal of Bond.Shame on critics too impatient to appreciate QoS for not spoon feeding them everything & praising sky-fall because of poorly scattered themes& metaphors on a plot that makes no sense, just because it makes them feel clever
__label__3 This is my first review and I'm writing it because the critics are all praising this film so much.Let me tell you, if you like Iron Man in any way and/or are familiar with the mythology, do not pay to watch this film. This is a poor excuse of a plot that outright spits in the face of fans and destroys one of Marvel's most powerful villains. Seriously, the Mandarin is Tony Stark's antithesis; their conflict was always the symbol for magic vs. science. Like Joker's insanity contradicts Batman's great use of logic. In Iron Man 3 they ruined him so bad only a reboot could save the character (and believe me, I hate reboots as much as everyone). The Mandarin is now used as a joke character with the main twist just playing for laughs (or in my case, tears). This guy should have ten powerful magical rings that alone could rival the Avengers' powers combined. Was this "adaptation" really the best thing to do? Magic CAN be done on the big screen, they've done Norse Gods! Ten Rings are nothing compared to that...Other than that, the film still wouldn't be good. Shane Black writes comedy action films, only this time the comedy is much more cringe worthy and not really funny, and the action probably sums up about 20% of the film. The main plot-device for armor malfunctions, power-downs and or stupid failures is so overused I was wondering how could they ever fill up 120 minutes without it. The actual Iron Man suit is so underused that you'll think this is Bourne or Bond you're watching. Also noteworthy: If a film relies on poop jokes for a quick laugh, it got as low as it'll ever get.Also, I must say Rhodes (War Machine) needs a plot arc. He's a tool. I love Don's work in the role and think he's charismatic (as are RDJ and Gwyneth), but he needs to have some kind of a story.Other new characters' besides the Mandarin are really hit and miss. This series' villains really have become one-note. We all know the bad guy is the one wearing the fancy suit that wants corporate power and tries to take over. Special mention goes to Maya, that one person who changes her mind all the time and leaves the film never having stepped in in the first place.Wait, I'm not done yet. There's also a kid "side-kick" and you guessed it. He's in an hostage scene! Well, that's some good innovative writing right there! All in all, this is as bad or even worse than X-Men: The Last Stand. Beware of the actual ending that retcons everything about Tony's back-story. I don't know how Marvel green-lighted this script, I really don't! I know any fan could have done it much better!
__label__3 Please save your money and don't watch this film. The plot is all over the place you seen Tony having anxiety attacks then ping it magically stops.....how!?The mandarin is not true to the comics, in fact its miles from it. No ten power rings in fact no explanation of how they came about his powers at all i mean why change a comic book storyline and main villain the storyline is already there! Magically at the end Tony can get rid of the shrapnel in his heart, and ceases to be ironman, genius idea.....not! if that was the case why didn't he have the surgery at the end of first ironman, secondly what the hell are you going to do with avengers two now!?The ending with Pepper Potts i'm sure was to just keep all feminists happy!i could go on with the flaws in this film....but ill put it simply like this for the first time in ages i walked out of the cinema angry at film so thanks for ruining the trilogy Shane Black! may we never see you near a comic/graphic novel adaptation again!
__label__3 Sometimes I think that I should like Tim Burton movies more than I do. Don't get me wrong, the man has made some excellent films, such as the masterful Ed Wood. But all too often, despite an agreeable tendency towards visual flamboyance, I leave his films feeling somewhat underwhelmed. Alice in Wonderland is a case in point. It's a movie where CGI effects rule the day. But the trouble is that the true weirdness that is at the heart of this story is not captured at all with all the computer-generated imagery on-screen. Sure it's very efficient and well-designed but like CGI in general, it's far too polished to really strike a chord and convince. There is a distinct lack of wonder in this Wonderland. The otherworldly weirdness is dissipated too by the use of overly-familiar voices to give life to the various denizens of this world, we are left thinking 'Oh that's Stephen Fry, hey isn't that Alan Rickman, I'm sure that's Christopher Lee and isn't that the bloke from Little Britain, etc'. It consistently takes us out of the movie and grounds the characters in a way that is just counter-productive. We want weirdness from an Alice in Wonderland film, not slick CGI and famous voice-over actors.There is also a dangerously cosy predictability at play here too. Tim Burton, Johnny Depp, Danny Elfman – they say familiarity breeds contempt, well that's a bit strong but it IS seriously lacking in surprises and you cannot help think that all three individually talented men could do with taking a break from each other for the good of their careers. Depp's Mad Hatter is pretty uninspired by his standards, while Burton's visuals and Elfman's music are nice but ultimately completely forgettable. I found it very difficult to care for any of the characters in this film, and that is never a good thing. It also meant that the conclusion came across as deeply trite, as we have been given nothing to empathize with. We don't know or have any interest in these characters, so when Alice goes around her extended family one by one imparting her new knowledge onto them, it means nothing. It also doesn't help that the journey to Wonderland has made absolutely no difference at all to the title character's state of mind – at the beginning she does not want to get married to the upper-class chump and at the end she does not want to get married to the upper-class chump. So you are left wondering what exactly was the point?I saw this in 3D and if there is one thing that this film has taught me it's that I am done with this 'new and improved' technology. I sensed it was a gimmick even before I watched Avatar; now I am certain. A bad film is a bad film, and no amount of extra visual depth is going to change that one iota. It's all surface-veneer, and really that's this movie's ultimate problem, there is nothing of interest within the CGI/3D. A great shame, as the source material is undeniably compelling.I realize that I am almost done here but I have not even mentioned the worst thing about the film. What was it? It was when the Mad Hatter and then, subsequently, Alice do a truly cringe-worthy little dance near the end of the film. I couldn't believe what I was seeing. I half-expected Britain's Got Talent winners Diversity to pop up in a cameo appearance at this stage and join in with some urban street dancing manoeuvres. That didn't happen. And that is, at least, one saving grace.
__label__3 This is probably one of the most disappointing movies I have seen in a few years. Alice in Wonderland should have been something up Tim Burton's alley, and instead he turned it into something it wasn't. He should have taken over the screenplay from Linda Woolverton (whoever that is) and created darker, more dimensional characters; instead, what we get is Tim Burton for kids. I would have preferred his take on Lewis Carroll's novel rather than a rehash of every Hollywood fantasy film. I thought the younger Alice in the film looked the part of the original illustrations and would have been perfect for the role. Depp ruined the Mad Hatter with his accent and incoherent speech, Burton ruined the Mad Hatter with his ugly costume design. I was disappointed to not hear Hatter shout "Change places!" I understand he is saddened by resent events, but even a mumbled, sad, "Change places" would have been nice to hear and keep his character intact through a simple and effective effort.The charm behind Carroll's novel is that there really isn't much of a story, but rather a series of random and always bizarre events that are colorful and imaginative. You start to gain the sense that Alice really is in a peculiar land and at times you even often pity her. With her return to Wonderland the life behind everything the novel created almost evaporated. I say almost because the Cheshire Cat steals the show and truly did save the the film. Regardless, I would have much preferred a stop-motion attempt (The Nightmare Before Christmas) from Tim Burton rather than the use of actors and actresses to portray Carroll's characters. What we're left with because of this is unnecessary, though beautiful, CGI and a lot of it. At the very least the mood atmosphere of Edward Scissorhands would have been a delightful treat.
__label__3 First of all I just have to say that growing up and to this day I have always been a huge fan of Marvel comics and their expanded universes, specifically Spider-Man and X-Men. I'm still wondering what to think about this movie about an hour after seeing it. I waited so long for X-Men to be made into a movie series, and after seeing "The Last Stand" I was very disappointed. Don't get me wrong, I did enjoy some of the film, for example the danger room sequence at the beginning, that was exactly what I thought the X-Men fighting the Sentinels should look like. However, the story, or lack thereof for that matter, literally angered me. How do you kill Professor X, Jean Grey, and Cyclops in the X-Men movies?! These people weren't supposed to die, what connected me to them throughout my years as a fan was how strong these characters were and how they were able to overcome the problems their world put into their way. "The Cure" as they called was hardly developed, the characters introduced in this movie lacked an introduction, and although it was nice to see Angel, Kitty Pryde, Colossus, and Juggernaut, among others, they may as well not even been in the movie. It was as though the entire thing was one giant spectacle, and disappointed me to the levels of the final installment of Star Wars. X2 left me hungry for more, and the original X-Men film had its problems, but at least stayed true to the foundations on which the story was based. This movie left a very bad taste in my mouth; Magneto and Rogue lose their powers (Rogue before she is even given any chance to shine), three major characters die, and the main character of the trilogy thus far, Wolverine, received the spotlight role among all of the other equally interesting X-Men, yet he gets his own film afterward and many characters we fans wanted to see, if for only a few minutes, never even made it to the screen. Like I said before, there were a few things I liked about the film. In my opinion, Beast was done justice. Seeing Iceman and Colossus reach their full mutant forms was also pleasing. Beyond these few things I have mentioned, I was not very impressed and thoroughly disappointed. The moment I heard Brett Ratner was taking over the project I began to worry, and this film proved me right. As a film student myself, long-time film lover, and X-Men fanatic, my hope for good art and good movies to be created from stories that had been around for so long just waited to be brought to the big screen was poisoned by this film. I know a lot of people will say that some changes had to be made to bring the comic to film, and I agree, but not to the drastic extents that this film took. The Spider-Man films weren't entirely true to the comics, but the changes were minute and fit well into the already famous and beloved storyline. Sam Raimi nailed those films and I remain thankful for his adaptations bringing my, and many others', beloved Spider-Man to the big screen. And as far as the first two X-Men films went, I was happy for the most part. But I have never been so disappointed in anything in my life as I was in this movie. To me, the X-Men took a creative and interesting spin on a problem that actually faces humankind, and all of that was lost here. There was really no resolution, no payoff, and no story. The film could have gone in a much better direction had the X-Men been forced to face one of their own, the Pheonix (Jean Grey), and brought her back with having her face the same attacks by the humans (Sentinels)that the X-Men faced. There would have been much more room to bring characters many wanted to see thoroughly into the picture (ie. Angel, Gambit, Beast, Psylocke, Colossus, Kitty, etc.) instead of bringing in many insignificant parties just to complicate things and provide for non-stop action. We could have easily got to know all of these new characters and then some if the story had been much better devised and the movie not been so rushed. This was also evident with the film's length; did they really expect to pull all of that off in less than two hours and have it work? The action in the film was well produced, but it seemed as thought that's all there was, action. They had enough to work with from the original story lines (ie. the rise of the Pheonix and the mutant-human war), they shouldn't have brought "The Cure" in to complicate things. Through all of my disappointment I still hold hope for a better X-Men 4 with the final scenes from this movie, and hope that the numerous X-Men fans finally get the pay off we so well deserve for buying all of those comics and keeping Marvel in business for so long.*I hope that this all reads clearly and concisely and that those of you who read this can understand my disappointment, after all it is 3:30 in the morning, and I'm a little shaken up.
__label__3 It has been 12 years since John Goodman and Billy Crystal voiced the original star characters. You would think by now Pixar could have come up with a better story. The premise is in the title, the story is non existent.Perhaps Mike doesn't see how bad this is because he is looking at it through one big eye. The 3D up charge is wasted on Mike and everyone else. The movie is long for a animated feature and it feels long and redundant with scare games, scare contests and scarcely anything happening.The good news is it isn't very scary and got a "G" rating. The bad news is there isn't much there for the adult in the audience. It is not funny.There is a message about cheating and consequences but it gives the impression so what if you are kicked out of college. So what if there is nothing to this prequel except a big box office.
__label__3 i loved the first transformers, the acting/humour was superb and the action was AMAZING. I was super anxious for transformers 2 and after about an hr I was anxious to leave. I couldn't take it anymore, everything was stepped up to a bad degree. Too loud, too much action, too much horrendous jokes and way too many robots! Half the time i was trying to figure out whos who and there were so many plot holes that bugged me, this all being in the first hr alone. There were three characters that I truly DETESTED, the twin robots and that greasy haired buffoon of roommate, it doesn't get any more annoying than those three. GAHHH and when all three of them were in the same scene I wanted to kill myself.
__label__3 Let me preface this by saying I'm a big Transformers fan. I love the series. I love the concept. I loved the animated series that used to air on TV. I even loved the previous Transformers movies. (Well, maybe not the third one, but I thought it was okay.) It is one of my favorite franchises and I just watched it being butchered for over two and a half hours.Transformers: Age of Extinction is a disaster. I was thrilled to get the chance to see it before most of the world but ended up being thoroughly disappointed. The movie is 165 minutes of incoherent nonsense and if you thought that's what the previous movies were, well, you might start appreciating them after seeing this.First of all, it has that god awful Michael Bay humor that we saw in the previous movies. It's not funny at all and there is so much of it so often it makes you cringe. It's like watching a senile old man running naked on the street. It's sad and it makes you feel uncomfortable.But that stuff was there before as well. What I loved about the Transformers movies, or what anyone loves about them, was watching the robots transform and fight. The previous movies had memorable moments. I still remember the scene from the first movie where Ironhide jumps up and shoots missiles mid-air in slow motion as the woman is screaming below, and Starscream jumping and transforming mid-air and flying off, Sideways getting sliced in half by Sideswipe, Scorponok rising from the ground, and the brief scenes with Demolisher and Devastator in the second movie and finally the Shockwave sequences and that time Bumblebee transforms with Shia LaBeouf still in the car from the third movie.But nothing of that sort happens in this movie. Other than Optimus Prime and Bumblebee, there are three other Autobots in the movie, all of whom are new. They try to come across as interesting but you don't really give a damn about them. Bumblebee is so seldomly seen on screen you forget he's even there in the movie. And Optimus Prime goes through his usual routine of getting his ass thoroughly kicked in the first half of the movie, only to rise again later, something which has been a common theme of previous movies. This is why I don't feel particularly strongly about the movie version of Prime because he fails so often and so hard in combat it's difficult to take him seriously as a leader.There are plenty of action sequences in the movie but the first half has about 10% of them. And considering the first half is about 90 minutes long it means you are treated to a lot of talking and other stuff that is either plain stupid or just boring. When sh*t does start hitting the fan later, it's just a bloody mess, with so much happening at once that you don't care about anything and none of it is particularly cool or memorable. There is also the nausea-inducing shaky camera technique being thoroughly abused here, which actually makes it hard to see what's going on because everything is shaking so god damned much all the time. Except when there is a product placement going on, then the camera is absolutely still so you can see the brand name clearly.The only redeeming aspects of this movie are the exceptional CGI with some stunning 3D and the incredible sound. The movie looks and sounds fantastic and if you do make the mistake of watching it, do it in IMAX like I did because otherwise there will be nothing there to enjoy. (This film does have the highest amount of IMAX footage I've seen in any movie, with practically half the movie being in IMAX. However, I did not like the way it constantly keeps jumping between IMAX and non-IMAX footage between every other scene. This probably won't bother you as much as it bothered me and if you watch it in a regular theater then you won't see it at all.)Overall, Transformers: Age of Extinction is a horrible mess of a movie and a complete waste of time and money. The previous Transformers movies were a guilty pleasure and scratched a very specific itch for a very specific audience but this one doesn't even do that while inheriting all the flaws of its predecessors. It takes a special kind of idiot to mess up something so simple but Michael Bay does it with aplomb.
__label__3 Worst of the transformers movies. Was okay until about a 3rd of the way through. Mark Wahlberg was better than Shia, but the movie was bloated with too many similar scenes.Enough chase scenes and slow motion explosions for the whole of 2014. It would be nice to see some sort of characters developed for the transformers. Because they are created as one dimensional punchlines there is no possibility to have any interesting story that involves the transformers interacting with each other.Wait for the DVD if you must see it, but you wont be missing much if you avoid it all together.
__label__3 This is one of the worst movies I've ever seen. I only went to the release because some parts were filmed in Detroit. The first hour was plot driven and tolerable to watch. Wahlberg is always fun to watch and the main chick is cute but the last 1.5 hours is straight action and no plot and I wanted to walk out before I had a seizure.Special effects were visually pleasing, but would have been better if I cared what was going on. Don't get me wrong, I'm not a hater. I tried so hard to be interested in this flick but I found myself looking at my watch obsessively for the last hour.On the lighter side, the idea behind the plot was interesting and though provoking but poorly executed on screen.I have never written a review before, but this movie was so utterly disappointing that I felt obligated to warn humanity. We are truly living in the age of extinction when we allow a piece of garbage like this to pass as a major motion picture release in the 21st century.
__label__3 Set five years after Dark of the Moon, Transformers: Age of Extinction sets out to continue the franchise, taking a new path in more than one way. Lots of explosions, action scenes and robots wrecking cities up and we've got ourselves the fourth one.To begin with, there were a lot of weak points, the biggest challenge being the fact that the entire human cast was replaced. I felt that Wahlberg and Tucci did a good job, but the rest of them were terrible. A lot of it has to do with writing: the characters were shallow and didn't have any depth at all. At a running time of 2h45min you think it would be enough to flesh them out but no. Wahlberg's daughter just yells "Dad!" and screams her entire screen time. Her boyfriend is shoehorned in just to complete the clumsy romance but in the end is just a tool to move the plot. Sophia Myles, amongst others, is completely wasted. The fact that Bay chose to concentrate on the humans again, and failed with it again, speaks volumes.It was, however, good to see how Cade (Wahlberg) first comes across Optimus Prime and being a mechanic/inventor, revitalizes the beaten leader. The focus also shifted from Bumblebee to Prime as the main link to the protagonist, but oddly it was never explained why Bee left Sam in the first place, being his most loyal protector.Now, speaking of techs in the film, there was a lot of slow-mo. A lot. And it really took away from the action. It is okay to employ slow-mo sometimes, for example when the robots are transforming, but not at every single shot. Moreover, the transformings themselves were weaker than in the previous installments. I mean, in the first one when Starscream transformed into a plane in the middle of the flight or they were fighting/transforming in the narrow street, or in DotM during the fights, this depth was lacking in AoE. Also the fights weren't as good compared to the gigantic robot battles or human black ops tactics in previous films. Lastly, as cheesy as it may sound Optimus Prime riding Grimlock was pretty awesome. Even if Grimlock was in the movie for about ten whole minutes. And Lockdown the bounty hunter as the main villain was also done nicely.The film is way too long, the beginning stretches a lot, the middle even more, the finale as well. We are treated to a lot of badly written human characters who just slow the movie down and stretch. Even the endless explosions got tiring (boom, boom, boom and slow-mo all the time, why oh why?). But honestly, going in I thought this would be loads worse. In the end though, not as good as the first or the third, but still better than the second (not that this should count for anything as that was plain awful). Altogether, too long, too stretchy, way too much slow-mo, too shallow characters, some decent fights and action, Prime riding Grimlock and Wahlberg being his usual self. Could have been worse but not by much.
__label__3 this is the really the worst movie i have seen this year.Let me make this short .It is extremely boring .I wanted to get out of the theater is mid way.plot is confusing.action and graphics are excellent,but whats the point when there is no story.above average acting,repeatedly irritating jokes,unnecessary music .music is good but it is added at unnecessary places.the movie could have been wrapped up in 30 min but it almost stretched for 3 hours.older actor was definitely a better actor.you wont be able to sit throughout the film if you haven't watched the other parts,but even if you have watched the other parts it wont make much of a difference.Don't waste you time and money for this movie.
__label__3 ***This review may contain spoilers************************** Quickly recapping the 1939 classic: A true wonder of film, utilizing gritty realism and fantastical surrealistic innovation to deliver a charming and timeless parable of self-acceptance and gratitude. The songs, the casting, the seamless yet unworldly story arc magically combine psychoanalytic and sociological themes, not to mentioned thinly- veiled drug references coming together so perfectly that it would appear that the chance to attempt this quasi prequel in this day and age was too great a challenge to turn down for this director. Unfortunately due to several flaws it falls flat like a house on a witch. Firstly, Franco- just awful, I'm sorry, he may be a smart kid and a good actor but he isn't able to pull off the con-man who finds he has a heart called for here. Trivia claims Depp and Downey turned the role down. The former, maybe, the later quite possibly could have made a significant difference here. Secondly, Kunis. I'm sorry but I COD't get the image of Meg as the giant moon-worm out of my head as she screamed on so, ugh! and finally, I am left with an inability to connect this particular premise with the classic, which began and ended in a reality with a coma-induced delerium used to bring together all the dots. Kudos to Weisz and Williams, fine acting in what is essentially a fun kidflick.
__label__3 I honestly don't understand how this has such a great rating. I had high hopes for this movie and though I didn't expect the movie to be everything I'd hoped for, I was still really disappointed with what I saw. The fx were just horrible. Not throughout the whole movie but enough that it became a problem. Now the acting, what can I say? The cast was brilliant but they must have not been too excited to do this movie as their acting skills were just terrible. The only one that did a decent job was Rachel Weisz. Maybe the reason behind some of the bad fx was because i didn't see it in 3D, though i sincerely doubt it. Watch it and get your own opinion on it though.
__label__3 This movie is boring and forgettable and not worth talking about. Its not terrible, there's just nothing here.
__label__3 Tron is on it's way to become the most over-rated movie of 2010. It's a candy-wrapped insult to intelligence, as well as to the original. First, the visual effects. Although they look stunning in their all-black-and-neon style, there's not much original about them. It's chases and fights like we've seen a zillion times before. The worst thing is that most original idea from the original Tron is dropped. In the 1982 version, the light bikes were making sharp 90º turns without losing any of their phenomenal speed, really like electrons moving over the grid of a computer chip. It gave them an unpredictable and dangerous feel, and the impression of an eerie universe where normal laws of physics don't apply. In the new Tron, however, everything looks much more realistic. The bikes ride like normal bikes, planes fly like normal planes, and people die like normal people. Except for the fact that they disintegrate into little square pieces... Whoo, surprise! What is supposed to be a world of competing digital programs, is just a dark street with people walking around in funny dresses and plastic umbrellas. Yes, it even rains, and there's bums with (how modern!) plastic bottles. The good guys are white, the bad guys are red. Except for that eccentric (read; gay) disco owner who turns out to be a traitor... No, I can't say I've been visually surprised once.Then the story. It's the kind of script that does away with reason. Facts are stated in sentences like "My disk is the key!" or "The portal is only open for 8 hours!" or "It will change the world! Science, quantum mechanics, religion, everything!" without explanation. The most ridiculous are the "ISO's", some tribe of digital people who 'just appeared out of nowhere', whose last surviving chick becomes of major importance because daddy says she must -at all costs- become human. All for no apparent reason, other then filling a void script. But our adolescent hero doesn't need reasons or explanations, because all solutions to his problems are handed to him on a silver platter anyhow. When the going gets rough, there's always a car or a train or some pretty girl appearing out of nowhere to take him exactly where he has to go. All he has to do is comply. It's no adventure, it's plain boring. But sometimes it looks nice. And the abundance of little stupidities in this film, like the paper pig they're having for digital dinner, make it funny. So I guess you could say it provides an enjoyable evening!
__label__3 I say this because he is the best part of this film. He is the only one who actually gives a performance worth watching and the only reason I gave it three stars instead of one. Now for the rest of this godawful mess: The first film had an actually interesting and sustainable premise, namely, a formerly free system, steadily being corrupted by an increasingly bloated AI Master Control Program, with dual protagonists in the form of the fish-out-of-water Flynn and the heroic security program Tron. The film dabbles with theology, philosophy, and the nature of existence without ever becoming ham-fisted or preachy, and, while flawed, manages to tell a cracking good story in (for the time) ground-breaking style.Legacy, on the other hand, manages to take that once-sturdy premise and twist it into some sort of muddled Hitler allegory, with no clear motivations for the heroes *or* villains, no clear explanations for exactly why Clu went bad, and, most of all, no clear explanation for just what the hell Clu thought he was gonna do in the real world. I mean, he did know the light cycles and light jets and stuff wouldn't work, right? He did realize that bullets would be perfectly capable of killing his solidified programs, right? He did know that his plan was the most *idiotic plan in the history of idiotic plans, right*?!! Moving on to the extremely sloppy plotting, a sleazy chairman of the board and Ed Dillinger's son are introduced early in the film and never seen again. *Ed Freaking Dillinger*! Think about that for a minute. The son of the man whom Flynn presumably sent to prison at the end of the first film is introduced as working for the company of the man who sent his father to prison. He "fixes" something Flynn's son does as a (lame) prank, concocts a solution to the prank, and is *never freaking seen again*! This is only the first of many plot threads which are introduced and left unresolved in the finest Disney potboiler tradition.I will not even get into the complete asspull represented by the "ISOs," whatever the hell they were, since I couldn't follow the gobbledy-gook Bridges was forced to spout in that scene. Let's just say that they're an anvilicious Jew analogy and leave it at that.All of this complete mish-mash of utter crapola leads up to one of the worst, most anti-climactic endings in recent cinematic history. I took time out of the retching I was doing at Bridges' awful performance (one minute he's playing it straight, the next he's The Dude-- make up your mind and stick with one, willya?) to marvel at the sheer hateful lameness of this blatant sequel set-up.There is so much more I could say about this waste of time, money, and opportunity, but I will end by saying that this film left my childhood memories like a Saturday night after Atilla the Hun hit town: raped and murdered.
__label__3 16 years ago, Pixar Animation Studios released the first feature length computer animated film in history, Toy Story. What followed was an incredible run of success, an 11 film hot streak that yielded dozens of awards (including 11 Oscars), billions of dollars in box office receipts, and the admiration of audiences and critics everywhere. Year after year Pixar was a company you could rely on, and while not all the films were perfect, they all were at least of decent quality, and light years ahead of their competition from the likes of Dreamworks and Sony. So therefore it's heart-breaking to say that Pixar's hot streak has come to a crashing halt in 2011. Cars 2 is not just the weakest film in Pixar's catalogue, it is the worst high-profile animated release for some time.If there is one Pixar film that divides opinion much more than any other, it is 2006's Cars. While by no means a bad film, it just didn't hit in the same way as films like Toy Story, Finding Nemo, or The Incredibles. It did middling numbers at the box office (by Pixar standards) and currently sits with a 74% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, the only film from the studio below 90%. For director John Lasseter (also head of Pixar), Cars is obviously a very personal film, a nostalgic story about the loss small-town American values in the face of increased modernity. If it's not a complete success, credit must be given to Lasseter for at least trying to say something meaningful, and in typical Pixar fashion the film stands out in the increasingly crowded computer animation film market for at least attempting thematic depth, and it's ability to reach audiences both young and old. Cars 2 on the other hand is completely devoid of depth and subtlety, and will more than likely annoy adults while at times being arguably inappropriate for children. Returning director Lasseter takes the worst character from the first film (in my opinion the biggest reason for Cars' failure), and structures the whole story around his infuriating exploits. Imagine George Lucas, upon seeing the negative feedback following The Phantom Menace, making all of Episode 2 about Jar-Jar Binks. That's the kind of thing we're left with in Cars 2. Compounding the story problems is the troubling amount of guns and violence in the film. To make the argument that 'it's OK because they're just cars' is inexcusable. This is still supposed to be a children's film, and while the espionage sub-plot does have potential, there are elements that seem shockingly unsuitable for young kids.This brings up a question: why would Pixar choose to revisit the only film they have produced which could conceivably be called a failure? Lasseter is on record as saying that the company would only explore sequels to their films if a good story could be developed, and the level of quality of the two Toy Story sequels seems to back up this sentiment, but it's hard to believe that anyone would think the script of Cars 2 is worthy of that high standard. Interestingly, there is one other way that Cars stands apart from other Pixar films: the estimated $8 billion merchandising revenues. While all Pixar films have profited from merchandising, none have had the global appeal of Cars. It's upsetting to think that Pixar, a company who seemed previously to place greater importance on the quality of its films than the bottom line, have gone for the easy cash grab, but there really seems to be no other reason for the existence of Cars 2. Everything about the films seems designed to increase the potential for selling merchandise, whether it's the films global locations which pander to international audiences, or the increasingly ridiculous characters and set-pieces, tailor made to be toys and video games. It's a cynical opinion, one which I had hoped I'd never feel towards a Pixar film, but it is undeniably true: Cars 2 is a film created not as an artistic endeavour, but to feed ancillary markets.Pixar's golden run had to end sometime, and one bad film is a small price to pay for 11 good, with two or three being genuine masterpieces. What is most unfortunate is the catastrophic level of Cars 2's failure, and Pixar will undoubtedly lose a lot of respect for making such a soulless film, unworthy of the studio's name.
__label__3 Yikes. This is definitely not the future my mother warned me about. This future is populated by cute kids, blood-free deaths, supermodels with perfect teeth and goofball terminators that shoot themselves in the foot. It is set in a sun-kissed Michael Bay desert landscape with high-tech military equipment and not the dirty sewers we saw in T1. Either Kyle Reese was laying it on real thick to get in Sarah Connor's pants, or McG et al were simply incapable of delivering the dark, post-apocalyptic future setting that they kept harping on about honoring before release.This is no doubt a casualty of the scarlet letter that is the PG-13 rating, oft denied by the production while they dropped subtle hints along the way such as toy deals, Pizza Hut endorsements and McG noting how the PG-13 The Dark Knight was "made without compromise". In reality the rating was a fait accompli the moment they green-lit a $200M production. The implications of the rating are not just sacrifices to language, blood & gore or in the inclusion of a sidekick kid to instill the family friend image. It's worse. Now the Transformers audience is a major demographic for TS, and it translates in the light-hearted, gadgety nature of the movie, and obviously in its Harvester design (who deploys mototerminators from its kneecaps).But quite honestly, massive mythology discrepancies aside, there is simply far too many wrist-slashingly bad/expository lines and heavy-handed metaphors in the script for this to even work as a standalone movie (thanks, Haggis). To its credit, much of the action is kinetically captured in a timely shaky-cam fashion. Lord knows I'm no McG fan (he's a snake-oil salesman) but I feel the major culprit truly is the script which spells everything out for the viewer with voiceovers and facepalm exposition. I'm sorry the writers were not able to give McG, at the very least, the kind of mindless action flick he was surely able to direct in a competent if forgettable manner. Whereas acting is concerned Christian Bale shows up for 35-40 minutes looking real angry at the world and at being involved in this project, it is in fact Sam Worthington who is a breakout star, and such an effortless tough guy that you can feel the bass reverberate in your body when he throws a punch. Think of how hardass he could be in the right R-rated setting. I'm getting chills just thinking about it. Everything else reeks of an empty cash-in sequel with neither knowledge nor respect for the source material, vaguely "justified" by tagging on "this isn't the future my mother warned me about". No, McG, it most certainly is not.Whatever. Pages could be spent arriving at the conclusion that this movie is, quite simply, abysmal. I'm giving it a 3 out of 10 based on Yelchin, Worthington and effort on the action side of things.
__label__3 The Star Trek universe, resplendent in Gene Roddenberry's vision of a future wherein mankind has finally "got its act together," while its social and economic problems are generally a thing of the past. Not in JJ Abrams' universe however, in which a corrupt Starfleet Admiral and a freshly revived genetically engineered 'John Harrison', an alias for a more familiar Star Trek adversary, take it upon themselves to create havoc with savage acts of treason and terrorism respectively.With seeming discount made to Roddenberry's unique take of Star Trek, evolving around the prevalent Hollywood ethos of filling seats at the local multiplex, Abrams' crafts, what I would term, a popcorn movie with plot-holes aplenty. With its target audience seated in place however, doubtlessly willing to overlook the obvious whilst simultaneously blinded by the startling visuals and 'tacked-on' 3-D (the film wasn't originally shot in 3-D, instead the process being added in post-production) this 'casual' viewer can safely check their brain at the door and, in all likelihood, enjoy...In this befuddled story, with its foot stuck firmly in Trek's The Wrath of Khan (1982), Into Darkness hauls its audience onto a seeming roller-coaster ride, dragging the viewer from one outrageous action set-piece to another, while its central characters are barely given a chance to 'grow' into their respective roles.In a likely nod to Trek VI – The Undiscovered Country, Sulu is afforded a brief turn in the captain's chair (a role which at least offered the actor some nifty poker-faced dialogue), whilst Chekov is contrastingly tucked away within the pipework-strewn bowels of the Enterprise' engine room. Scotty, meanwhile, refusing to sign for a delivery of conspicuously 'shielded' torpedoes, resigns himself into the background with his unusual but interesting little alien friend. This is clearly Kirk's film however, while his relationship with Spock (and by extension Spock's relationship with Uhura) being about the only things explored here. Worst of all however is Karl Urban's Doctor 'Bones' McCoy, who is virtually confined to pitching nostalgic-tinged quips: "My God man, I'm a doctor not a nuclear torpedo technician," a character so painfully underused here – particularly given the actor's obvious talent in this role.Evolving around two villains, each of whom possessing completely different agendas, 'John Harrison' (Benedict Cumberbatch) and a warmongering Starfleet Admiral (Peter Weller), the latter of whom taking command of a freshly constructed battleship class vessel named USS VENGEANCE. Despite a promising start however, having chased Harrison to his conspicuous Klingon hideout, Kirk is somehow 'manipulated' into seeking the terrorist's help; an inconceivable decision given the character's explosive introduction - which also ignores the obvious danger he poses. And let's not forget the supposed personal anguish felt by Kirk, of which Harrison had been its mastermind. Oh well, things disintegrate further when its finally realised just how incredibly stupid Kirk has been, trusting a known terrorist whilst the viewer, during the film's final reel, is woefully pulled along during their frantic re-attempts at his capture.With an ending pulled directly out of The Wrath of Khan, albeit with Kirk and Spock on opposite sides of the radiation screen doors, I was beginning feel as though I had been robbed of my admission: the contrived nature of this protracted scene, deriving itself virtually word-for-word from its thirty-year-old original, played out while the audience undoubtedly watched in astonished déjà vu. I use the term 'contrived' given that, not unlike the life-restoring 'Genesis Planet' seen in Trek's The Search for Spock (1984), the answer to Kirk's mortal dilemma was really only a hypo-spray away...As a Trek fan, I was bitterly disappointed here: the filmmakers might well have just re-shot Nicholas Meyer's film entirely. Sincerely what an utterly shameful and wasted opportunity all this hokum was.When I emerged from the cinema, I was somewhat stunned; processing what I had just witnessed on-screen. And after having slept on it, I was finally able to articulate the next day. What I had seen wasn't so much Star Trek – a series I so dearly love and consider myself a lifelong fan of – but some cheap (albeit very expensive, costing well over £120 Million) and certainly pale imitation of a film series that deserved far better scripting and storyline than this. These wonderful characters – legendary even – each of whom a household name, whilst some having inspired many a fan to seek similar professions in the real world, reduced here to mere caricatures' of their namesakes.Over-shadowed by the film's ample and certainly showy special effects, these characters seemed stunted and confined instead of simply being allowed to develop properly.Such a shame. 3 out of 10
__label__3 *** Contains spoilers ***Saw the film and it was a mixed bag. Effects are great, sound is great, lens flares are everywhere (as expected), story wise it was a let down. Technically Trek never looked better.The enterprise family from the old days (Shatner, Nimoy etc.) worked together very well, dialog was top notch, gags well placed and the motivations clear. No wonder, they worked the characters out in the series before and they could build on that. In the new films they haven't formed that family yet, hell they had just one film, but the director is expecting from the viewer to believe they have already formed a bond. Why in gods sake? This doesn't work especially when Kirk saves Spock at the beginning. "You know why I had to save you"......No...why? Looking at the first film, I think he could have saved the enterprise or the planet people better over just one crew member. Then, when Kirk saves the Enterprise and Spock is getting very emotional about it, I asked myself, why. I haven't seen a buddy play before and didn't get the impression that the two characters are friends and hang around share private thoughts or any other stuff that the old crew did. Technically they just have met and did go through the first film, hitting on each other. The "saving scene" was therefore totally out of context for me and spoiled the whole experience into the illogical and disbelieve. Yes I would go as far as saying that this scene was crap. They could have solved this very easily, by not showing that scene and letting the enterprise crash on earth, but not letting everybody die because of some dampers that spring on in the last moment. When they are saved they are told that the ship Khan was at helm, somehow vanished, making this a possible but not immediate future story. Looking at it now it lacks a lot of character development and the film consists mostly of effects and big bangs, lots and lots and lots of running around and big again, big explosions, hitting people and yes, big bangs. Hopefully they fix this in future films. If not, New Star Trek stopped at the first new film for me.
__label__3 Viacom/Paramount have got to pull the JJ Abrams team (writers Damon Lindelof, Roberto Orci, Alex Kurtzman) from the next one ... anyone could do a better jobFirst and foremost the Abrams team did not make Star Trek either with their 2009 film or this one, and if they get to do the next one after the under-performance of Into Dreckness it won't be until 2017 that it sees a release since Abrams, et al, are off to do what they do to the Star Wars franchise for Lucas and Disney*Spoilers*Into Darkness is a typical action-adventure Mission Impossible kind of thing (it's what Abrams does), but this one is even more hackneyed and grasping than their first effort. They don't respect the source material and couldn't come up with any ideas so the reverted to the Plot Scrambler again and trot out an amalgam of forger female characters and a stupid new secret society found only in the novels and comic books and long after the audience has figured it out reveal that Brit actor-of-the-moment Benedict Cumberbatch is indeed KKHHHAAAAAAAAAAANNN The stupid brewery is still there as if Abrams wanted to thumb his nose at those who called him out on how dumb it was the first time ... and that idiotic little rock-monster sidekick is still aroundViacom/Paramount ... quietly let the deal the for the 3rd installment by Abrams and his team go kaput and hire Dean Parisot to do the next one since he's arguably done the best one already anyway (GalaxyQuest)
__label__3 I remember playing the original Prince of Persia on the Amiga 500. It was a race against time to rescue a princess from an evil vizier. And that was it. No time-bending; no art du déplacement. Just fencing and jumping and pits of spikes.The new tie-in from increasingly hack-like director Mike Newell is based on more recent incarnations, of course. But however complex modern videogames have become, it's not that interesting to watch someone else play a computer game, and that's basically what you get here. The Sands of Time element involves a dagger with a button which rewinds time by a few seconds. You can imagine a young Spielberg revelling in a craftily-written scene in which the smouldering heroes bicker and flirt, jostling events to out-do one another, subtly subverting our expectations whilst satisfying our need to be entertained. This script (the product of four minds, including original PoP creator, Jordan Mechner) gets the bickering and flirting bit, but there's none of the craft.In fact, the script is downright lame. Lots of plot, yes, but written so thuddingly, and with so much exposition, that none of the boring characters have a chance to do any acting. Least of all Sir Ben Kingsley, who seems to be having zero fun as the sinister patriarch. There's some wit in Alfred Molina's Sheik Amar, but ultimately his presence only serves to remind us that the aforementioned Mr Spielberg made a vastly superior action adventure 28 years ago.Indeed, Raiders of the Lost Ark spawned a phenomenal franchise. Disney and Bruckheimer may hope for similar affection, or at least the dollars of the Pirates machine - but I fear they'll receive neither.
__label__3 I'm going to commit what to many will seem like film geek treason, I will now connect Michael Bay and Terrence Malick into one theory of filmmaking.Yep, deal with it.Malick and Bay share one important thing and that is a completely unabashed tunnelvision for the type of film they want, damn the naysayers, critics and crowds. They both make movies mainly for themselves and in truth, there is nothing wrong with that. As an audience member you need to know going in exactly what you are going to get. It is the only way to really enjoy anything that falls from the cameras of these two (and some other notables). With that said, let's dive headlong into the metallic masterpiece of summertime popcorn, Transformers!Transformers: Dark of the Moon continues the story of Sam Witwicky and his Autobot friends. While Sam struggles to gain a purpose in life outside of Decepticon attacks, the Autobots are off helping the government on secret missions. Then everything is torn apart by the discovery of the original Autobot escape ship, known as The Ark, and the captain of that ship, Sentinel Prime. He alone holds the key to technology that could either help reshape the Transformers home world or completely destroy ours. The Decepticons, completely aware of this discovery, make an immediate power play and the war is back, bigger than ever.Kids buying the Transformer toys today only want one thing, huge robots in spectacular 3D slow motion destroying each other and every building in sight. From this narrow viewpoint, Bay delivers in bulk. The highway fight sequence brought back memories of other high-speed terror scenes like in Matrix Reloaded and The Island (maybe a little too reminiscent of that last one according to some eagle eyed movie nerds). Since Bay actually filmed these scenes in the latest and greatest 3D technology, it was admittedly pretty amazing to watch. In other scenes, some of the CGI was so intensely crisp that it actually started popping too far from the live footage, making it stand out, which ruins a little of the illusion.So the special effects is where it was at. Big robots, big explosions, big buildings falling down. Those were the high points.The low points were pretty much everything else.Standing in the center of all the toys-on-roids insanity is Shia LaBeouf, who in my opinion is a really good actor banking inside really bad movies. I can't fault him for taking parts in some of the biggest franchises in movie history (Transformers and Indiana Jones) because the exposure and paycheck are nearly impossible to pass up, but in terms of showing his skills as an actor, those hefty titles have done him nothing but a painful disservice. He made his big splash on the scene in the Disney TV show Even Stevens and then on the big screen in the Rear Window update, Disturbia. Many people also don't remember one of my personal favorite performances in the Project Greenlight-sponsored film, The Battle of Shaker Heights. Shia has the chops, but gets surrounded by weak emotional performances, both from CGI and real people. In this outing, Megan Fox's eye candy character was replaced by Victoria Secret's model (and current Jason Statham girlfriend), Rosie Huntington-Whiteley. Whiteley was an improvement in sense of acting ability, but the part was written levels below what Fox was given. The original love interest had layers, depth and some edge, while Whiteley was given virtually no background, no emotional outlet and nothing to do but stand there and be hot. Sure, the 12-year old in the audience doesn't want or need more, but to them I say, "Go grab a Victoria Secret's catalog from your parent's bathroom and stay out of my movie."Beyond the magical pair of leads, Bay brings back the regular tough guys, Josh Duhamel and Tyrese Gibson, to keep on keeping on. They both do fine jobs and don't try to make this more than it is. Coming in for the first time in the franchise is Frances McDormand, an Academy Award winner to class up the joint. While she was amusing and brought a little more skill to the screen, her part was borderline over-the-top, even in a movie with three story tall robots, because she had to balance out John Tuturro who drifts somewhere off to Hunter S. Thompson land. As if they weren't enough, Bay decides to bring in an unusual amount of big name cameos, including John Malkovich (who does a decent job in his few scenes) and Ken Jeong (who seems to be acting in a completely different movie, possibly thinks he's filming Hangover 3). I saved the best for last though, my personal favorite and the only person I was actually thrilled to see appear on screen, Alan Tudyk (who plays Tuturo's assistant/bodyguard). Tudyk is a cult TV and film legend to his legions of fans spanning from the days of Firefly, Dollhouse and other projects not created by Joss Wheedon. Tudyk was the one person I actually cheered form when he magically appeared on screen.I could go into a section now where I talk about the story, the plot lines, the connective tissue of the writing, but in reality, Bay didn't really care and neither do the younger members of the crowd, so let's just skip it.The End of the Page recommendation: Transformers: Dark of the Moon starts slow, goes out with a bang and delivers surface entertainment for the middle school crowd.
__label__3 I'll keep this simple with no spoilers.The good: Amazing animation. The environments are incredibly realistic. Surprisingly the characters are probably the "worst" animation in the film, but still good. This is the only reason for 3 stars.The bad: SLOW. Drawn out boredom punctuated by moments of pretty scary intensity. (Way too intense for young kids, in my opinion.) Very little dialogue. Very few moments of levity. Very little character development. Characters aren't really likable or relatable.The ugly: Several instances of scary and violent dialogue and very scary situations. I understand were talking about dinosaurs, who were the apex predators of their day, and that they supposedly lived in a brutal environment, but this is supposed to be a kids movie!Summary: My wife and I took our boys (9 and 4) to see this. We were sorry we did so. My 4 year old sat still as a stone, very unusual for him, and the look on his face alternated between fear and boredom for most of the film. I actually considered taking him out of the theater a couple times. My 9 year old did not laugh once during the movie, also unusual, and told me as we were walking out he thought the movie "was just okay." Sorry to say I can't recommend this as a family movie.
__label__3 This film is very beautifully done, the artists, great job. The storyline was terrible. It was another balled up Disney movie that seemed like it was just trying to fit in every single cliché and Disney trademark as it could. It starts as it should, epic. Then out of nowhere the epic Celtic music begins and the female vocals come in. I immediately wanted to leave. The girl I was with, also seemed exhausted with this as well. It didn't need that, it made the film go from really cool to chick flick.Little did I know, it was going to get worst. The trailer explained the movie as a hero rising, and the changing of fate. Who doesn't like that. So she rides off mad at her mom, finds a witch and requests her fate to be changed. She is granted her wish and her mom is turned into a bear. Yes, a bear. So the entire movie, basically is the main girl trying to mend her moms relationship and turn her back into a human. Well, that's not hard, because the love is already there. She basically apologizes and is sad about everything. and obviously, in the nick of time, the sun, which could consequently keep her a bear, shines light on the two and magically she turns back into a human (which isn't as cool as I'm making it seem). The plot was a total deviation from the trailer, it made no sense, and it was more for little kids than the usual Pixar film, which for the most part is usually made for a wide audience.After the film, I couldn't leave fast enough. I hope people enjoy the film, I just didn't. Nor would I recommend seeing it. I was throughly disappointed, but I'm curious on what others think. So feel free to email me at ryanhartford86@yahoo.com
__label__3 I felt compelled to write a review to counter all the excellent reviews that this movie has received.It is not excellent, in fact it is dull, celebrates disobedience and feels like two completely different stories taped together to make up the time.I can't really see the point of the movie, young girls in Scotland today (or the USA or even South Africa)are not forced to marry, in the tenth century when they were it was accepted and not the great drama made out in the movie.The whole movie reeks of feminist fantasy- wanting to live in a romantic Scottish medieval setting, sorting out mother issues and having modern rules and standards.I found it disturbing that every male character in the movie was portrayed as at best, big stupid and loving, (King Fergus) at worst violent and evil (the bear). They only males given any intelligence in the movie are the triplets, who are constant thieves, conniving, ruthless, destructive and very small! The basic story and message was if you are a young woman with serious mother issues, don't worry. Do something really nasty to your mother, then say you are really sorry then your mother will change her mind and you can have it all your own way! Don't worry about any men involved as they are too stupid to understand what is going on.A lot of this I could have forgiven if the movie did not feel so disjointed, and in the second half frankly boring. This is not "How to train your dragon" with a female lead (that would have been great) this is a feminist Disney "Mother bear" done very beautifully by Pixar, with great voice acting but ultimately very unsatisfying.
__label__3 Animation is spectacular, great setting in the Scottish Highlands. Voice acting is above par. However, this movie is not among the top Pixar films, by far. I felt the sickening presence of Disney all over the film -- weird politically correct preaching, overdone action scenes, and generally random and weird plot.The story is really disappointing. What exactly makes her 'BRAVE'?? They should have named the movie 'PETULANT'. She's selfish, and the entire plot is about how she can get out of the results of her selfishness while remaining selfish. The magic feels out of place, lots of wasted scenes, and the whole bear thing was just plain annoying after a while.Not a lot of funny moments, and generally boring! I was really looking forward to this movie, and I did not like it.
__label__3 This movie is definitely for women in general. A young girl coming of age is told she must have a suitor and get married. She's a tomboy and wants to do her own thing and her mother and father want the opposite - that's about it . The rest of the movie is filled with low brow humor , typical slapstick violence and the usual moral of the story ending. After seeing the trailer and the movie poster ,one would think Brave would be about this young girl fighting and winning battles with her bow and arrow and a rousing adventure. Instead it's a dull boring coming of age story with not much to give except for the kids who like to watch cartoon bears and other creatures frolic around the woods and moms raising their bratty teenage daughters. 3/10 .
__label__3 I remember the trailers for this movie. It looked like the story of a girl bucking all the traditional customs and stereotypes by saying no to pre-arranged marriage, not being prim and proper, as well as being different from everyone else is beautiful. What it turned out to be was a mess of a fight between the girl and her mom with some bizarre magic thrown in. This came so far out of left field that the movie was probably 2/3 over before I understood what the actual storyline was. I didn't like this direction, it felt like they took a character who could have been strong and confident in herself right from the beginning, and turned her into a whiny, teenage brat. I didn't think the connection between mother and daughter was heartfelt or genuine at all. The connection to her father was at least believable in that he had old school beliefs versus her brat whining. The twins were annoying. And the animation was... Lost in all the bizarreness in the story. Plus it seemed like it was someone's goal to make as many different body shapes as possible and that put me off too. I've only watched this once, will never again and I have never shown it to my kids.
__label__3 Where do I begin? As a lifelong Star Trek fan I had an uneasy feeling while watching this movie. I could not shake the sense that I was just looking at another mediocre summer popcorn flick; an experience that would evaporate from my brain just hours after I leave the theater.I remember sitting in the cinema with my head low embarrassed by the movie, although I wanted it to prove me wrong ever since I saw the "Beastie Boys" trailer back in 2015. Instead, it dragged along with that "proven" Hollywood formula of what a summer hit should look like. Constricted by its own creative limitations I was looking at a product that was not a science fiction in its core, but a creation that had only one intention since its birth: to milk as much money as possible.Star Trek Beyond was so devoid of the primordial concepts set up by Mr. Gene Roddenberry that it contributed to the confused identity of the picture. The plot of the movie is so "light" in its essence that it lacks the moral dilemmas, the exploration (inner and outer) and the development usually present in the Star Trek universe. There was neither message nor any character evolution and we did not learn more about anything really. Instead of Kirk, Spock and Scotty you could stick just any name over the protagonists and nobody would have noticed. The story was atrocious and full with plot holes patched up by unnecessary although flashy looking CGI. Star Trek Beyond also has one of the weakest villains in its history. It was definitely not the actors fault and such a shame to waste the opportunity of having a strong artist like Idris Elba. It was the fault of the writer and the director who missed the opportunity to take Star Trek back on its track. Instead they created a cute flick full with needless CGI scenes, explosions and dialogue written for "dumb" audiences. Everything had to be explained to the viewers, nothing was left to the imagination. There was nothing to debate with your friends after the movie or something to stir your imagination or to push you to prod its meaning. Nothing like that at all, everything was given on a run-of-the-mill plate for the audience to consume in a shortest possible time frame.The movie had its moments, so not everything was complete rubbish. I liked the character of Jaylah and some of the humor, but that was it. Some of the scenes were of course visually impressive though sometimes things would fly around too much and contaminate the image. Of course this movie was done by people, who know their job, but I am not pondering the execution and the skill of the artists, I am merely concerned about the soul of this thing we love so much. This thing we used to know of as Star Trek.
__label__3 How is it possible to spend so much cash making a movie so utterly meaningless and bad? 185 million USD?This is 2 hours of your life that you will never get back.So, where to start? First off the story is so thin and seems like a child wrote it. It has no depth and right from the beginning you feel basically nothing for the bad guys or the good guys, and there are so many holes in the story.There happens to be a huge base far out in space where the Enterprise is going to restock? Isen't the Enterprise supposed to be out in deep space exploring?Next to this large space base there is a nebula and apparently a planet with perfect conditions for human survival. It seems to be right next to the large space base, which would seem very very unlikely considering the vastness of space. And the crew happen to land on the same small area of this huge planet so they can all meet up.Then they meet a character that seems to be a bad mix of Rey from Star Wars and Neytiri from Avatar who happen to have found an old federation ship (that of course they can get to work after 150 years on a deserted planet), very unoriginal.So the reason for the bad guy Krall to lure the Enterprise to his planet and destroy it seems to be a device that Kirk has that will help Krall kill people. But in the end of the movie it is very clear that using his ships alone he could have easily destroyed the base - so what was the purpose of this relic device in the first place?There is quite bad CGI during the whole movie. In every action packed scene especially the fighting the camera moves around so much it is hard to grasp what is happening. But even with this shaky camera trick it's impossible to miss how utterly bad these scenes are. The fighting scene between Manas and our Rey character is one of the worst Iv seen in a long time.The only thing decent with this movie are some of the actors and their dialog. Everything else, from story to script to CGI is just garbage.Im sorry I like Star Trek I really do, but this movie is not worth seeing in the cinema.
__label__3 You don't fool me. You might have put Justin Lin at the helm it is so obvious you were pulling the strings. Because everything in this film has your hand print on it. Star Trek Beyond even starts with a freaking lens flare.At this point I had made peace with the new Star Trek and just wanted to enjoy myself. Bring on the spectacle and eye candy. Give me the super slick action and your edge of your seat thrills. All I wanted was to have fun. But no, that would actually require some effort and you could not be bothered huh Abrams? So yes let me be one of those guys complaining that this is not my Star Trek. I have been a fan of the original franchise for a long time. I actually embraced the reboot until Star Trek Into Darkness. Although that did not stop me from enjoying for what they were. Fun popcorn movies but so far removed from what Gene Roddenberry's Star Trek should be about that it simply is not funny anymore. But would you believe it that Beyond even fails as a fun popcorn flick? All the spectacle and eye candy was unimaginative, uninspired and ultimately boring. Yes, you heard me say it. Star Trek Beyond is boring. It had me going for the first ten minutes and then I lost interest completely. There is nothing in this adventure that drew me into these events. I could overlook the minimal story and lack of genuine twist and turns. Although the big one at the end was decent enough if it weren't for the fact that I already had stopped caring about this film entirely. All the characters in this film could have died and I would not have given a damn. Maybe except for Bones. Karl Urban can do no wrong with me. Even if he tried to. But all the other characters got on my nerve. Anton Yelchin's Chekov was a parody of the original. Worse of all though he is not in the film as much as I would have liked to. There isn't a single scene that serves has a proper send off and farewell to the magnificent actor he was. And that pisses me off to be frank. Actually a lot of characters including Chris Pine as Kirk lack the charm and wit from previous films. Spock was more human than Vulcan. Let me remind you people that it was his Vulcan half that made him an interesting character. It was like no one in this production cared about this film at all. Then why should I? Why should I give in and accept this mess of a film?And trust me I tried shutting of my brain and simply enjoy it but I couldn't. Because nothing about this adventure is memorable or exciting. Most important reason is that the spectacle is predictable as hell. Even the Beastie Boys scene you could have seen coming miles ahead. Now I must admit that that scene did put a smile on my face. But one brief moment of joy like that is not enough. Not by a long shot. In order to remain fair I have judged this film solely on what it did offer and not of what it could or should have been. Still I do have to point out that this latest part in the reboot franchise is proof that this is not Star Trek. The older films and TV Shows next to spectacle always offered good drama and thought provoking concepts about many essential things that matter in life. Star Trek made science and philosophy accessible and fun for people who otherwise might not have been interested. Star Trek Beyond however dismisses all of this and treats it's audience like they are idiots. The people behind this new franchise assume current audience only want action and spectacle and nothing more. And maybe this is true which makes me sad. Very sad. I like to be challenged. I like to be provoked about political and social issues when done right. However like I first stated that I was willing and able to overlook the lack of this in favour of fun. But that's just it. Beyond rarely is fun. The very few moments that were could not make me forget the agony I experienced while watching this film. I stared at the screen in such detached manner that I think I would have gotten more enjoyment watching noise.I for one am hoping that they are done with this and that they will go back to what Star Trek should be about. But if they don't the fans will. So many wonderful fan made Star Trek projects out there that are made with love and passion that surpass these crappy movies in every way. Simon Pegg claims to be a huge Star Trek fan. Then it is so puzzling to me that he could have written this script. Almost everything about it is a downright insult to the real fans and legacy of Gene Roddenberry. I never realized this until now but Simon Pegg is kind of a douche. Overall don't bother people. Star Trek Beyond is a giant waste of your time.
__label__3 ... not THIS lame. Jackie looks old; every time he has to fight or do a stunt it just reminds you of how much faster, slicker and younger he used to be. Tucker is going through the motions - he had two amusing moments, one about calling Chan 'Kiko' and another when he dances while forgetting the dangling hostage he was supposed to be rescuing. As for the plot - forgetaboutit. Max von Sydnow? Could you have flagged the bad guy any louder if you'd given him a Hitler moustache?It gets three stars; one for each of the jokes that made me smile, and one for the blooper reel, the funniest thing in it. To get maximum enjoyment from this movie, wait for the DVD and go straight to the bloopers,
__label__3 What we have here is a sequel of two action-comedy blockbusters and let me tell you that I'm a huge fan of Rush Hour and Rush Hour 2. Unfortunately, even though Brett Ratner had six years to direct a Rush Hour 3 it seems as if he didn't use his time wisely. Rush Hour 3 isn't necessarily a horrible film, its just void of belly laughs to make up for the disappointment in the weak action, story and chemistry. WARNING: Best jokes are used up in the trailer. The rest of the jokes have been used in other films or they're just not funny. Its hard to even tell when I was supposed to giggle.Carter and Lee try to solve a case in which a famous ambassador is shot in the chest the moment he is giving a ceremonial speech. Even though the ambassador is guaranteed to live, his daughter makes Carter and Lee make a promise that they will catch this criminal who put the ambassador in harm's way. After that it sort of just lost me. But I didn't care, I mean come on this is Rush Hour. I came here for the comedy right? Well it turns out that there's a bunch of twist and turns and rituals and mysteries that almost seemed like a supporting genre of the film.The relationship between Lee and his brother is tremendously frustrating. Mainly because his brother is an evil, foolish murderer and yet Lee can't accept the fact that killing him would make the future convenient. Throughout the film Lee hesitates to kill him which I know you'll grow tired of as well. But that's not Jackie's only problem. 99% of the film he looks miserable. What happened to the Lee that made an idiot of himself that we saw having a good time yet had the time to perform kick-ass action? Speaking of action scenes, the karate he uses is much more milder and instead of using his fists and legs he's always trying to defend himself with an object and running away instead of going after. Carter is more obnoxious than funny in this film. Just yelling and screaming words but the truth is that just because you amplify your voice doesn't make something funny. There's some plot in here that almost made me feel like I was watching Rush Hour 2 again cause we had that moment where Carter and Lee got mad at each other and become friends again, where they judge each other by race and the finale where they fly to the ground from a skyscraper with enemies firing at them. The action sequences aren't anything special, story hard to follow and comedy not in the league of the first two Rush Hours. Overall Rush Hour 3 is worthy of a rental. Nothing is worth while on the big screen though. I think people planning to see this would have a much more promising time at Stardust or Superbad.
__label__3 I never thought it would be so painful to watch a franchise being milked.Apparently Chris Tucker has only had to make three movies in the past 9 years, and this is the third one. No prizes for guessing the other two.It's not that Rush Hour 3 is a particularly bad movie, but it's just a tired re-working of themes already heavily mined in the first two instalments.The only marginal difference here is that whereas in Episode 1 and 2 the "player-outside-his-turf" mantle was worn alternately by Lee (Jackie Chan) and Carter (Chris Tucker) respectively, here, they're both out of their comfort zone viz. Europe, and more specifically, Paris This plot point doesn't actually change the formula's outcome that much, because every other element is essentially unchanged.The coolest stuff in the movie is already showcased in the trailer, so if you're pressed for time, just watch that.PS: Roman Polanski did look like he was having fun though...so much fun, in fact, that he didn't bother to have his name added to the credits. Smart man.
__label__3 Yes, I walked out on this movie, 20 minutes before the ending. I've seen lots of films that were crapper, but this one was so damn aggravating. And unfortunately I went to see it by myself, so I couldn't relieve the tension by turning to a friend to say 'I HATE this film and want these characters TO DIE'.To start with the okay things first - some of the disaster sequences were hugely excessive and brilliantly creative in their way (9 or 10 out of 10), it's ambitious in size, and the cast was mostly good. I enjoyed the comic Russians, even though they were clichéd. I've enjoyed slightly silly disaster films in the past, like Knowing and The Day After Tomorrow, so I try not to take a snob attitude towards them.Now for some of why I HATED this - *SPOILERS* * Other people have commented on the 'heroes' (ie the dysfunctional white family) escaping every disaster at the last moment, more unbelievably than Indiana Jones ever did. While everyone else screams & falls down, continents literally move across the globe for this family's convenience! This is amusing once or twice, but then just gets silly. The emotional problem with this is that you can then only take this as being enjoyable action-comedy. But at the same time BILLIONS OF PEOPLE ARE BEING KILLED (there's no gore, but it's clear everyone on the planet is violently killed), and then even more amazingly you are meant to care whether this dull dysfunctional family gets back together. No, I wanted them DEAD! * This family is AWFUL. Despite the world going to hell, they care for nobody but themselves. They even take their escapes for granted, and all they can give the dying people around them are blank stares and then go back to talking about their personal issues. At least their young girl has the decency to sob once or twice (okay, I take back wanting her dead, but not the others). At a point later in the film, where the mother begs someone to save her kids, I wanted them to ask her what she'd ever done for anyone else's? What a cow. Drown em. * There's nothing wrong with depicting world disaster through the eyes of an ordinary family, but the story isn't actually told through their eyes only, so their importance is never explained. Why am I meant to care? * Did every African-American have to be so bloody noble? EVERY SINGLE ONE? * Having all the non-Americans get the secondary roles left a nasty taste. Because the rule in disaster films is that most of those secondary characters are just there to be killed off. The WORLD is ending, not just the US. But everyone takes orders from the US President, everyone is happy to talk English, and if you're a character from outside the US in this movie, say your prayers. Or rather, don't even bother. * What was the point of filling ships with billionaires? Their money would help build the things, but once everyone else on the planet dies, crusty old billionaires are not only not the best people to hang around with (they're generally not known for their manual labour or scientific skills), but after the world is destroyed so will 99% of their wealth! Their assets will be wiped out. There is no bloody point! A possible plot-line would have involved SOME billionaires bribing their way on board. But boatfuls of them? I have a low opinion of billionaires, but am certain most would be way too smart to think that was a good idea. * This film is kind of insulting to other nations. Even though plenty of US Presidents have been creeps, not all of them have been, and I can accept a heroic US President in a film. BUT, it's insulting to have other world leaders follow him blindly, and have him behave so nobly, going down with his country, while then portraying the Queen of England as one of the loathsome billionaires buying her way out - considering that the Queen Mum made a point of staying in London during the blitz, it's an insult. There's another uncomfortable point where a character expresses exasperation at the type of people they're saving - just as the camera catches sight of a smug middle-eastern billionaire. It comes across as an insult, whether intentional or not, but this film doesn't deserve the benefit of the doubt. Oh, and killing everyone in the Vatican, weird. This kind of mild nastiness could have been fun if the whole film had've been more wicked and bitter, maybe making John Cusack a lovable sleazeball, but no, it has to attempt to pull on our heart-strings too. We are simply meant to love the dull white American family, and want to see them get back together, because Hollywood films take that for granted, and to accept that all African-Americans are amazingly noble, because that's Hollywood being PC.Where I walked out - started to get the urge when the mother begged the Chinese guard to save her children. Would have loved the Chinese guard (oh look, he speaks English) to explain to her why her family didn't deserve his help in the slightest. Where I did walk out - when one of the noble African-Americans made a god-awful speech about why they should try to save more of those horrid billionaires, that those people deserved a chance to live etc. No, I was not going to let these characters try to regain my sympathy so easily after hours of callous behaviour. And I just knew it would be a matter of minutes before John Cusack's character would attempt something similar, through some heroic action (and the plot synopsis on Wikipedia tells me I was right!).
__label__3 How could they make "A Christmas Carol" into such a cold, uninspiring tale? It feels as if all the emotion has been taken out, from the characters, the story, and even the fantastical elements. The voice actors are badly miscasts, especially Jim Carrey himself, who feels out of place all the time and slips into some mannerisms a few times. The use of horrid 3D computer graphics certainly does not help: the characters look like ghastly marionettes, inhuman and unfeeling. The point of the story is completely missed, as is Scrooge's personal development, and even the ending, which was supposed to be a celebration of the Christmas spirit. Just compare to Pixar's "Up" and the range of deep emotion there, and then look at what a cold and hollow tale this 3D "Christmas Carol" is. I'm pretty sure this vast misstep will soon be forgotten, as it's so badly misdirected to ever become a true Christmas classic.
__label__3 If you want to see a painfully unoriginal and unengaging story of paint-by-number characters getting at it in the green room for 90% of the time, go see this movie.The most deplorable thing about this movie - aside from the plot being an incoherent mess - is the way the villains are portrayed as caricatures, and the good guys as saints who can do no wrong. I don't know about you, but when the villains are portrayed as sadistic psychopaths with no real motive or character, I lose interest in the story.tl;dr lots of CG, completely two-dimensional characters and a plot that could've been auto-generated with a smartphone app.
__label__3 This movie started off quite well, for a movie I had quite mediocre expectations it caught my interest when it introduces some interesting characters with mixed motives, unfortunately that and a few good cinematic shots is where the praise ends for this movie.This movie had potential which only makes it even more disappointing,we're first introduced to Tarzan as a British politician and is then forced to rediscover his wildness but lacks any real character and only comes across one dimensional with the traits of an angsty teen who's marriage we're supposed to care about but I'm not sure whyThis movie tries to incorporate way to many elements, the overall plot about the enslaving the Congo and getting rich from a mythical city full of jewels that we're not even allowed to see at any point combined with fueds with passed foes that don't really come to any settlement a tribe leader that had his son killed by Tarzan that wants revenge, gorilla brother that wants him dead, trying for a baby and flashbacks of a potentially better film we could have had, they rush through these very quickly without really developing or keeping your interest Some really awful scenes, Samuel Jackson who I'm not sure needed to be in this movie jumps off cliffs only to land unscathed on a branch, combined with a very predictably unsatisfying ending that couldn't of come fast enough and causally wrapped up with all the bad guys defeated, they may as well have froze in the air jumping to the backdrop of a sunset, with the joy of sweet release as the credits rolled to only leave me with a face like a bulldog eating a wasp and annoyed and frustrated that I have wasted time and money sitting through another failed sequel that is sure to fade into obscurity Overall this movie lacks any fun or adventure, poorly directed as this movie lacks any identify, wouldn't recommend this film to anyone other than my worst enemy, all round disappointment
__label__3 *****Potential Spoilers*****lost the plotAs more and more animated films are getting a modern make over, I can say that I was genuinely excited when I saw the first teaser for this Tarzan film. Straight away I was thinking of how my favourite scenes from the previous movie would be brought back to life along with How the animals would look, if they Would talk, At what point would we hear the iconic Tarzan roar and of course how would the vine swinging look with today's cgi technology. In my opinion the animated storyline was a great foundation to work from and should have been ( for the majority at least) left the same. The trailer when released made me almost certain that that was going to be the case. Particularly after seeing The shot of the tree house over looking the ocean and the gorillas discovering Tarzan as a baby. However. . . . This story is being told very very very differently. The entire story I was hoping to see brought back to life has already come and gone. All You are treated to are multiple flashbacks throughout the film to relive certain moments such as how Tarzan met Jane, what happened to his parents and how he became one with the animals etc but they couldn't even get that in the slightest bit right. The first time you see Tarzan in this film you don't see the Tarzan we know and love we instead see a well dressed, well spoken Tarzan ( called John) who is discussing politics and events that are unfolding/about to unfold in Africa. Straight away I felt like I was watching what should have been a sequel to a revamped first film. Then who happens to appear . . . . Drum roll please . . . .who else but Samuel L Bloody Jackson 😫😫 Playing a character that was completely out of sync and in all honesty laughable. A character who found himself able to jump off cliffs and land safely In trees, stand and watch Tarzan take on a full sized gorilla with not a flicker of fear other than the occasion typical Jackson outburst. A character that if changed into different clothing could have been playing any off his previous roles. There was no adaptation to suit the film. David Yates directing this film reminds me of Roy Hodgson managing the England team during the Euros. Had a good base to work with but ultimately had no idea how to put it together so that it worked. You were only teased you with what could have or might have been. A fight scene fuelled on the loss of loved ones and raw emotion that only lasted a few minutes (with more than an underwhelming conclusion) would be an example of that. The characters had no depth and this was not the Tarzan and Jane I was hoping to see. That being said I think the choice of actors ( Samuel L Jackson being the exception) were the right choices for their parts but were portrayed completely wrong by the director and the direction of the film. Bitterly disappointed with the plot, the characters and also some of the visual affects. I think the majority of people who were expecting or hoping to see what I was hoping to see will be as well.
__label__3 Well, he we have another film that looked vaguely interesting on the trailers but turned out to be really boring. Well, there must have been quite a few people wanting to see it though because there were a number of sessions at my local cinema that had sold out, and I ended up purchasing the ticket the night before so I didn't have to waste my time walking all the way to the cinema only to discover that it had sold out again. Well, I didn't waste my time in that regard, but I do feel that I did waste my time sitting in that cinema for two hours watching a film that I really couldn't get all that excited about.The story of Tarzan was the creation of Edgar Rice Burroughs, and is about a man who grew up in the jungle among the apes, went back to civilisation, hated it, and returned to the jungle. When he was first in the jungle, and the main reason he returned to civilisation, was because he met and fell in love with Jane. This film, however, begins after he has returned to England and settled down. However King Leopold of Belgium is bankrupt and is looking for ways to get so money, so he sends this guy to the Congo to establish an ivory and diamond trade. The catch is that in doing so he is going to eventually destroy the Congo.There are a number of flash backs to when Tarzan was first in the jungle, and how he eventually meets Jane (and also how he became Tarzan, namely that his parents were killed by apes, but he was rescued as a baby). We also discover that he has made some enemies, namely because he killed the son of a tribal chief so as to protect his ape parents. This all comes together to a grand finale when a horde of wilder beasts run through a Belgium sea port and they eventually drive the Belgians out of the Congo.As I said, the film was pretty boring, and Tarzan himself was actually really annoying. In fact I really couldn't stand the character – it just seems to be an excuse to have some guy swing around the trees on vines, and run around bare chested. We also had to have the token American Negro (who, if he had fought in the civil war, would probably be in his fifties by the time the movie was set, and he certainly didn't look all that old). Obviously, this was all about how he had come here to expose Leopold's crimes in the Congo, and to also free the natives from slavery.No doubt this film touches on a lot of issues – such as the rape and pillaging of the Congo by the Western powers. Even though it is a sovereign country, it is till one of the most dangerous places in the world, and that is if you stay inside Kinshasa – out in the jungle it is even worse. The film explores ivory trade, western imperialism, and of course the exploitation of the natives. However it also has this hero – Tarzan – come swinging out of the trees to save everybody. In the end this film was pretty dull, and I think I'll just go back to watching the Avengers movie.
__label__3 I personally thought Days of the Future Past to be the best of the series. And as it turns out, Apocalypse is the worst one to date.The only bright spot in all the awfulness is Quicksilver, whose slo-mo scene is at least as good as in the previous movie, if not better. Other than that, everything else goes from mediocre to outright terrible.The main villain's motivation is bland and stupid. (Yeah, he just wants to kill everyone and rule the world.) The way he "persuades" other mutants to join him is absolutely unbelievable - he basically just offers to increase a mutant's power and in return demands help to kill billions of people. Sounds like a fair deal. What's offputting is that the extent to which he augments his followers' powers is not constant. Like, Magneto gains the power to control pretty much all the metal on the planet at once, while Psylocke gains another special effect on her CGI laser beams or whatever it is that she emits. Apocalypse's abilities in general are largely undefined - at times he is shown pulling matter from objects around him to construct something, and then in the next shot he just makes solid objects like armor out of thin air. Another ridiculous thing was that they tried to make Isaac more intimidating by giving him thick soles so that he'd look taller, which is noticeable. What is more, his lines are cringe-worthy, but the problem is, so are everyone else's. Same boring cliché dialogues like "It's your home. We will help. Join us, Eric. I see good in you."Yeah, forgiving Magneto like it's nothing after he helps to kill millions of people and destroy entire cities is included in the package. Also, he changes his mind about the whole "destroy the world" thing after Mystique tells him for the 100th time that he is her family and she still sees good in him.Some of the characters' looks are still beyond ugly. I can actually see why they chose to try to keep the Beast and Mystique in their human forms more, except for saving the actors from the extensive make-up procedures. The thing is, these characters look absolutely god-damn atrocious and are painful to watch. I mean, Lawrence is annoying and redundant when she is on screen anyway, but when she is also blue, it just becomes vomit-inducing.Recent 2016 comic-book blockbusters also did not enjoy good scripts, but at least they had high-quality gripping action scenes. This is not the case here, as fighting is mostly goofy and bland, and at times it is clearly visible by the actors' motions that they are being pulled by the strings. Or being drawn in cheap CGI.This is actually sad. Singer's previous movie, DotFP, was outstanding. The recent Deadpool, who ostensibly shares the universe with the X-men, was awesome. And now we get a horrible, outrageously stupid and pretentious CG-overdosed mess. Let's hope the next one will be better.
__label__3 couple tiny spoilers*****Apocalypse....I give it a C and I'm being nice, what a disappointment but it was expected, can't believe what singer has delivered, I would rather see Justin Lin make an xmen movie! Singer needs to go! I could not let go my disgust with apocalypse costume design. I just couldn't. I see why they went with the look they have, because to singer he wanted to show Oscar Isaac face, to show the man behind the make up sort to speak. But it's terrible! He's apocalypse I don't need to see the damn actor playing him!! First whole hour is terrible, only thing I enjoyed watching was magneto's story line, quick silver steals the show once again and wolverine does as well. Disgusting what singer has done!
__label__3 I own every Pixar film on DVD but I have to say that UP may be the first one I pass on. I was very excited about seeing the film today after reading several good reviews. I think now that perhaps some reviewers out there are letting the Pixar reputation get to them. I can't believe ANYONE would say this is one of the best films of the year. Films like MONSTERS, INC, FINDING NEMO, WALL-E and TOY STORY deserved accolades like that but UP doesn't have the heart those classics did. The film is at its best early on when the characters aren't talking much. We see a montage of the lead character's life as a young Carl meets an exuberant girl named Ellie. We see them marry, live a life together, experience the highs and lows of life and finally, we see Carl loose his beloved Ellie and become a widower living alone in the house that always was their home. This sequence is moving and made me think that Pixar was about to strike another home run. However, at this point the characters start talking more and the story starts to get a bit...much. Carl decides to tie a bunch of helium balloons to his house in order to fly the house off to South America on the adventure he and Ellie were never able to complete together. He unwillingly takes along a young boy scout stand-in (Russell) who ends up on Carl's porch when the house takes off. Russell is determined to earn the patch for helping the elderly required by his troop in order to graduate to senior status. The balloon premise is a bit far-fetched but since it's an animated film, you go with it. However, once in South America, things get progressively weirder. Carl and Russell end up walking through the jungle and mountains with the house strapped to them, floating above. I think I knew the film was NOT going to be the usual classic I was used to from Pixar when they come across a bunch of talking dogs. It seems Pixar, whose done films about animals who can talk and done films just about humans, wanted to mix the two so they write into the story these dogs with collars that allow us to hear their thoughts. The dogs belong to an old adventurer living in the area who is determined to capture a big, ostrich-like bird to prove he's not the fake the world judge him to be decades ago when he claimed the bird existed. The adventurer has hundreds of dogs and not only do they search the jungles for the elusive bird, they also cook for their master, serve meals AND fly planes. Very weird. I think if you're going to make a film about smart, talking animals - make a film about smart talking animals (FINDING NEMO) and if you're going to do a film about humans, do one like THE INCREDIBLES about humans. In UP Pixar tries to mix the two and it just doesn't work. The ONE character who I thought had the most heart and was most interesting, was Kevin, the big bird who doesn't talk, seems devoted to her young and takes an instant liking to the human boy who probably reminds her of her babies. I heard kids in the audience more than once asking what was going on because they couldn't quite understand the story. I suspect UP will not be one of those films kids will watch over and over again like they do with the other Pixar classics. Pixar has some incredibly talented people but in UP I think they spent too much time on "cool" ideas and not as much time on developing the story and characters into something we could care about and believe in.
__label__3 Watched it, didn't enjoy it. To me it looked like a waste of time.The Good: 1) Have a few good jokes in the movie. 2) Relatively high quality CG.The Bad: 1) Predictable plot. It many places it is obvious what will happen in say, next 15..30 minutes, and it is possible to correctly guess key events at the end of the movie.2) There are less than 5 good jokes in the movie. 3) Nearly no character development - only main character change a little, others remain unchanged. 4) Unrealistic character development and behavior. Not really logical story. Weak plot.5) In some scenes it almost look like creators were running either out of time or out of budget - while some scenes are interesting, and filled with many objects and different characters, most of the other scenes use pretty bland sets that doesn't look "alive" (In my opinion) enough. In fact with exception of one or two scenes nearly every set looks more like decoration, than a something even remotely realistic. 6) Absolutely horrible design of giant butterfly at the end. Bottom line: Someone obviously had too much cash to spent. This movie could be much better. There are maybe 2 or 3 good jokes that could make me smile a bit, but story weak and predictable, and the movie doesn't offer enough in graphic department to watch it only because of graphics or CG.
__label__3 The thing is.. it's just not entirely entertaining. Maybe I expected more and had my hopes up so it's probably partly my fault but MONSTERS Vs. ALIENS is just an average family movie. It's got some amusing moments, a few scenes that will get you to chuckle a bit, Kids will love it, parents will love it, but the rest of us however will be saying 'okay, next!' Thank God it has the 3D because otherwise I'd be staring at my wristwatch from beginning to the end.I'm okay with 3D movie, I welcome any awesomeness that could enhance our movie watching experience but if the movie has humor that misses the target and a story way too easy for our intelligence, not even 3D could fully save the day. I respect the MONSTERS Vs. ALIENS trying to teach our young viewers the lesson of not looking at people like freaks or different because you never know, they might be the ones to keep the world from getting blown up by aliens. The movie uses the blue character BOB as its poster boy because all the marketing indicates that he's the comic relief but I find the president to be the most hilarious, for some reason I don't know why, but Stephen Colbert gets the best lines in the movie.The action 'roller coaster ride' sequences are just OK, your typical scenes that you've felt in other movies before, it doesn't have that much of a thrill if you ask me. Reese Witherspoon's animated character, Susan is supposed to be the lead star and yet in the end we could care less for what would happen to her. I'm impressed with Keifer Sutherland's peculiar voice as the angry general, hearing the voice alone I wouldn't have figured out it was Kiefer. I don't wanna drag this review, point is MONSTERS Vs. ALIENS is pointless, predictable, and over-hyped. You won't miss a thing if you never watch it. You shouldn't be surprised because Dreamworks animation is a hit-and-miss situation unlike Pixar that always lives up to its promise.--Rama's SCREEN--
__label__3 Martin Scorsese's first kid's movie falls short of its expectations. After seeing the trailers, my family and I had very high expectations for this movie, and we eagerly went out and saw it in the theaters. We walked out extremely disappointed.First of all, the trailers were completely misleading. My first impression was that the movie was about a boy trying to uncover a great mystery left behind in the wake of his father's death. I thought the movie was going to open up into an enchanting adventure, complete with suspense, action, and magic. I didn't get any of those things. This movie starts out will a long build-up, with the audience waiting for this magical adventure to get underway, only to keep them waiting for another hour or so, where nothing interesting or magical happens.The pacing in the movie is terrible. The movie opens with some stunning visuals, the camera panning over the Paris cityscape and eventually showing us around the train station where the protagonist, Hugo, lives. We get the story of his father's death, and are left with a sense of wonder. We want to know what the automaton is for, why Ben Kingsely's character is so bitter, and what this adventure Hugo promises his little gal-friend is and when it's going to happen. The movie starts and stops, then drags for a bit, then starts, and drags for a long time before grinding to an unsatisfying halt. The adventure doesn't happen. All that waiting around... for nothing.I don't really know what to say about the acting in this movie. Most of the actors had good moments and bad moments. The dialog was lacking. The characters spent more time staring at each other than actually talking. Some of the facial expressions and emotional reactions were a little on the melodramatic side. (POSSIBLE SPOILERS)Ben Kingsley gets pissy because the two kids find out that he used to make movies? Hugo throws a fit because the automaton didn't work as he expected to? I don't think these were appropriate responses to their situations.The one good thing I have to say about this movie is that the visuals were absolutely gorgeous. From the cold blue lighting in the snowy outdoor scenes, to the orange-y warmth of the train station, to the powerful metallic essence of the gears and clockwork in the tower, this movie has some of the best 3D effects that I've seen since that awful, shallow Avatar. The problem is, the magical visuals cannot make up for the drab and very UN-magical story.Overall, the magical, engaging adventure the trailers promised does not exist. The movie's pace is very slow. Some of the acting is questionable. The visuals were good, but they didn't save the movie. Do not go to this movie expecting something with substance. And definitely do not bring your kids to this movie; they will be bored to tears.
__label__3 There's no denying that 3D has almost never looked this sharp, but there are plenty of films out there where it doesn't call this much attention to itself; it enhances the cosmetic aspect of the film; it hardly does much for the weak adaptation of the novel. In "Hugo", as it is the case in many of the of Scorcese's films, technological improvements throw his film out of balance, and this is the beginning of the many flaws in this project.The art direction and costumes are breathtaking, immersing the audience in the right period, though it has barely any of the charm and magic that made another film set Paris this year so successful. In that other film, all the scenes in the various periods are evocative and involving. Here the experience is as cold as a disorganized display in the best museum. It doesn't have much impact on its audience. Some of the scenery could be an exact imitation of the original inspiration. There were a couple of times when the visuals blend perfectly with a few of the clips that are integrated in the film.The problem is the almost absolute lack of warmth in the various relationships between many of the main characters and the way they are directed in this movie. The young man at the heart of the film feels at time as another piece of furniture in the set. When I walked into the theater, many of the people weren't sure if we were watching an animated film or a live action production because they said the actors looked funny. The feel feels so cold in its adaptation of a very interesting literary piece, a book so charming with its integration of words and its simple black and white adaptation. To be fair it is hard to look away because it is so gorgeous, but at the same time, the disappointment hits hard because this is a film that should relies heavily in the sense of wonder usually associated with children's films and/or young performers. Earlier this year "Super 8" and "Real Steel" benefited immensely from the outstanding work and charisma of their young performers. The Elle Fanning scene in "Super 8" puts everything in this film to shame. Where both of those films project warmth, innocence,and a great variety of emotions, "Hugo" never becomes multidimensional, a big irony, considering its best quality is the nearly perfect 3-D visuals. To make things worse, two other projects involving literacy and story telling, made by Cuaron ("A Little Princess") and Petersen ("The Never Ending Story") have shown that its is possible to blend reality and magic, with the help of the right approach and the appropriate performances.In addition to the lack of emotional magic on the screen, the pacing in "Hugo" is so slow it borders on catatonic, dragging for most of its two hours. We finally arrive to the last third of the film, a place where the film finally comes alive; suddenly, Scorcese pours his heart in the film, using original film clips and beautiful recreations of the original sources from various classic films of early French cinema. These are breathtaking, as they play, one after another, showing us the sense of wonder original audiences must have experienced. Finally, one is almost overpowered as Toto was in several scenes of "Cinema Paradiso" as the director viewed the treasured collage in the final scene of that movie, or as the young protagonist of "A Little Princess" told her magic stories set in exotic India, infused with her own imagination and simple stop motion work. Petersen went even further with the seamless blend of the young man, as he becomes a part of the literary experience, and one realized how powerful the magic in the written word can be. Very little of that exists in "Hugo", a shiny package, with a rock for a heart.Scorcese has done much for the preservation of cinema, and the original source of this film lent itself to a cinematic production to support his cause, but just like Spielberg chooses other people to direct some of his projects, much more could have been achieved by handing this property to a more suited director, a person who understands innocence, wonder, how important it is to get inside the hearts of people, opposed to working with projects where the main characters are notorious for not having one. Rarely Scorcese has shown in his movies any sort of affection for or between his characters, "Alice doesn't live here anymore" is a rare exception, and children in it are a bit on the precocious side. Come to think about it, Law showed much more emotion in "A.I." as he interacted with the marvelous Osment, and both of them were playing automatons.A big disappointment.
__label__3 It's hard to see who this film is aimed at. It isn't a children's film as they would be bored rigid within 20 minutes let alone over 2 hours.It hardly appeals to adults as the storyline is childish. The humour is predictable and poorly delivered.The action is slow and dreary for most of the film and the acting by most of the cast is amateur. Sasha Baron Cohen in particular lends nothing to his character and is poorly cast in the role.There are serious gaffs in the film, particularly the one where Hugo is on the railway line and the speeding train is headed towards him. The question is why would a speeding train be on the line as the railway line is a dead end anyway and there are buffers there On the plus side the cinematography is excellent but this is the films only plus point and can't save it from being very disappointing.
__label__3 Since we saw Mummy III and Hellboy II as a drive-in double bill we're doing sort of a twofer - reviewing both movies simultaneously and posting under both titles - because we discovered that we were actually watching the same movie twice. It was a fascinating way to see these films; giving us the opportunity to directly compare and contrast them and analyze why one succeeded and the other failed.Synopsis: Ancient Relic must be returned to Undead Villain so that Villain might be reanimated in order to summon his Demon Army and destroy the World. Hero's task is to thwart this process. In the course of attempting to prevent Armageddon, Hero is nearly killed but is saved at the last minute by Love. Hero's power is not great enough to stop Villain, so secondary characters must make the Ultimate Sacrifice in order to dispatch Villain and Save the World. The End. If it all sounds familiar it's because it's also the plot of nearly every superhero or fantasy movie made over the last umpteen years. Note to Hollywood: It's time to come up with a new plot line, OK? Please? We were expecting to enjoy Mummy III. First, there was Brendan Fraser and most of the cast of the previous Mummy films. Then there was the rich potential of the setting - the Terra Cotta Warriors, the mystery and lore of China...even a trip to Shangri-La and Yetis. The table was set for a feast of mystery, wonder and enchantment. How could they not produce an entertaining film out of all this? One word: Writing. We're always amazed when megabuck films apparently cap the writing budget at a buck ninety-seven. Early on, didn't anyone involved in this say, "Hey, the script we're working from really stinks!"? The rich mythology available to them was utterly wasted by the writers. Shangri-La was a cheesy set that served only as a platform for one of the progressive plot elements. The Yeti, though well done, performed their little shtick and left the scene. One appearance by the shape-shifting villain as a three-headed dragon and so much for the fascinating potential of Chinese dragon lore. The hero's skeletal army could have offered another little tribute to Ray Harryhausen (as was done so well in the first Mummy), but no, why bother? And the dialogue was uniformly clumsy, blunt and contributed nothing to either character development or plot movement.The writers in Mummy III were obviously in video game mode. Video games need progressive plot tasks. So the Relic is returned to the Villain. But wait - now the Villain must carry a jewel to the mountains that will reveal the location of Shangri-La. But wait - now the Villain must enter the waters of Shangri-La to be fully restored. But wait - now the Villain must return to his tomb and summon his Terra Cotta Army. But wait - now the Army must make it over the Great Wall in order to achieve immortality. And so it goes. Played out like the levels of a video game, and with even less explanation of the rationale than you'd get in a video game. These are game levels rather than story elements, and since the audience's need to be informed isn't fulfilled, it winds up not understanding - and consequently not caring about - what's going on.In Hellboy II director/writer del Toro had the more difficult task. Without a wealth of Chinese mythology to squander, he had to invent his own...but he does it so very well (to see what we mean, watch Pan's Labyrinth - please!). Del Toro is an imaginative story teller and myth maker and proves it in Hellboy II. He also appreciates something the writers of Mummy III don't - the wonder of small magic. The single moment in Mummy III that made my wife "Ooooh!" was the transformation of the egg-thing that awakened the emperor. Beautifully done - but the only thing of its kind in the movie. Everything else was bigger than life, overblown. In contrast, del Toro is full of small magic. From tooth fairies to troll markets to wheels within wheels, he understands that an audience can be just as enchanted by the small wonder as by the huge spectacle. It's the difference between stage and close-up magic. Make an airliner disappear and I will only wonder about the mechanics of how you did it. Make a coin float in mid-air before my eyes and I will be mystified.A hallmark of both the Mummy and the Hellboy franchises is the effective use of humor. Mummy fell flat at every attempt. thanks to inept writing. Hellboy pulled it off very well - two love stricken, clueless guys getting plastered to Barry Manilow's "Can't Smile Without You" was delightful. We also have to mention del Toro's mastery of lighting, set design and mood. His movies are consistently visually evocative, which makes a good movie even better.The movies shared one flaw with several other recent movies: climactic action scenes that go into visual and auditory overload, causing the eyes to glaze over and reducing the ability to comprehend what's going on. When we lose the ability to take in what you're showing us this is a bad thing. Please don't toss everything at us at once just because you can - let us absorb your work so we can fully appreciate it. Had the intense action not drenched us a few times in Hellboy II it would have another star.In summary, both movies had capable casts and premises with wonderful potential. Mummy III failed, sadly, to capitalize while Hellboy II succeeded very well. The difference was the quality of the writing and the talent of the directing. We only wish the Mummy III crew could take a mulligan, sit down and take a few lessons from del Toro and try again. It's a shame that can't happen.
__label__3 Disappointment. That's actually far better than what I felt after watching this movie. I wanted to leave the cinema about 30 minutes before the end but that's against my personal policy so I tried plan B but found nothing to poke my eyes out so I watched, and cried...-First, where is Deadshot? No, because all I saw from start to end is goody Will Smith playing the good family guy, very far from the cold hearted hired assassin he is supposed to play.-Second, what was that false publicity? The Joker appeared a lot in the trailer but he has absolutely no purpose in this movie apart from being the background story of Harley Quinn. Really, you remove him, you get the same movie but with only half of the theatre full.-Third, while I'm on her, the guys who made this movie obviously didn't get the relationship between Harley and the Joker. The Joker don't give a damn about her, she is his tool, he can throw her from a bridge without a second thought while Harley has developed a serious Stockholm Syndrome toward him. In this movie they are all lovey-dovey, at the end of the movie I nearly expected to see them leave in a car with "Just Married" written on the back with a "And they lived happily ever after."-The first half of the movie is actually not that bad, the villains really look and act like villains most of the time but everything started to fall apart after Will Smith reunite his troops after they failed the mission the first time, each one of them just want to drop everything and leave but then Will Smith says they can't give up and of course all the bad guys listen to him because he is Will Smith (God?). That was when I did my first face-palm.-This movie is 50% Will Smith, 40% Harley Quinn, and 10% the others. Really, apart from the first two, the others are just background characters, to make a comparison, in Guardian of the galaxy, you got one hero but you know the background stories of every members of the team, and they get their fair share of screen time. In this movie, they just don't care.-The jokes, sorry... The "jokes", well, I think the quotes speaks for themselves. Sometimes it's funny, most of the times it's not and sometimes they even try to explain the joke you understand but don't find funny. I think Warner tried to be more funny and less dark in this movie after they got some bad reviews about Batman Vs Superman being too dark but that's just ridiculous, they remade some scenes to add jokes and sometimes it even breaks the action.-And while I'm on it, Batman vs Superman had an impact in the DC Universe, it starts with the consequences of what happened in Man of Steel and at the end of it, the world has changed. In this movie, there is no progression of the DC Universe, it feels more like one of those filler episode you don't want to watch in any series.-I won't talk about the end of this movie because, as a sadist, I want you to go watch this movie and suffer during the two hours needed to finally reach the end credits. Just know that the last minutes are actually way worse than the rest of the movie. Enjoy ;)Anyway, as a DC fan, I wanted to see Harley Quinn in a movie but certainly not in this one. I really, really, REALLY hope that Warner won't use this movie as a reference to make Justice League because if they do I'll have to formulate an official request to DC so they can let Marvel do their movies :D See you all in 2017.
__label__3 I am really really disappointed to be honest. I was waiting for this movie for so long, I loved Suicide Squad in Assault on Arkham and I was so happy when the news arrived about the live action movie. And as a massive Jared Leto fan I was extremely happy they chose him for the role of my all time favorite character, Joker. So I was hyped to see him, but the whole gang too. And what I got from the movie was equal with pure sadness. I mean, Jared was in it for a total 10 minutes and his role could have been easily left out, I only knew the characters because I read the comics and watched the wonderful animation (which by the way a 100 times better), the story telling was HORRIBLE, the actors could have been wonderful but they kinda lost in the terrible script. Will Smith, Margot Robbie and Viola Davis were fantastic but we didn't really get to know them... and the other characters were only there for... who know why? WHY DC, WHY? This story had so much promise and you ruined it... You should have adopted the Assault on Arkham into a live action movie... All these characters would needed a stand alone movie, and once we've got to know them then put them together... sure it would take years to build up a universe like that, but come on, that's what Marvel did and their movies are amazing! I am so, so sad right now... All of the actors deserve way better than this and they all have great potential
__label__3 I was really looking forward to this movie and only ended up with a huge deception. The script is messy and there are way too many characters that are too quickly introduced. Many of these "villains" would require a whole movie to give intensity to their character... I really feel like DC just wanted to have as big an audience as possible without spending a penny on the script. Some good things are the special effects , the movie is overall very beautiful to watch. Some characters need a bravo for their wonderful roles: Harley Quinn mostly... The others are kind of empty to me. And some are very very bad like enchantress who mumbles in a foreign language all along and whose only 3 lines in English SUCK (when she asks Flag to destroy enchantress instead of saving her blabla). The Joker doesn't have a place in the movie, his role does not add anything to it and half of his lines are... awkward moans. El Diablo's behavior is predictable from the very beginning, Batman really wasn't necessary, Katana's few lines are desperately cheesy, etc... As a conclusion, the viewer is unable to feel a link whatsoever to any of the characters since their stories are disappointingly and quickly told. The acting of many characters does not help, whether they were just bad or the director asked them to play in that un-subtle fashion. The script is disjoint, flashbacks don't add much quality or intensity to the movie, and the "big plot" revealed at the end is... not much of a secret since the viewer KNOWS enchantress escaped from the hands of Waller. I feel like this is a big commercial move from DC to attract people... However, this will only disgust the people who were fans of the heroes/villains in the beginning. Money over quality
__label__3 Steve Carell better watch out--if he takes many more scripts like this he'll start overexposing himself as that guy in terrible movies just when his career should be skyrocketing. This film is one more symptom of Will Ferrell-itis. Just say no, Steve! My wife disliked this movie because she said the religiousness necessarily behind the concept was a little too over-the-top and in-your-face for her. I personally think the movie does its best to keep from alienating people whose belief in biblical events like those portrayed here is minimal at best, even making fun of Congress' lack of faith, but it's almost as if the movie tries so hard to avoid this problem that it pours on the "love your family" sap with so much thickness that the audience just can't get unstuck or see beyond it.My main problem with the movie: it's not funny. Plain and simple. The only somewhat chuckle-inducing moments come from Wanda Sykes' one-liners; Steve Carell does not have a single funny thing to say the whole movie. I almost felt bad for him, stumbling through this poorly-written and ridiculously implausible script with a goofy look of frustration the whole time about how the world didn't believe him and God expected too much of him. In reality he must've been frustrated by having been suckered into what will hopefully be the worst film role of his career.As other reviewers have stated, why are there two of all exotic animals if the flood is a brief local event that hits only suburban DC? Why does no one believe Evan even though it would be quite easy to demonstrate how his beard grows back immediately? Why haven't the producers of "Click" sued for the cheesy family-is-more-important-than-work point hammered repeatedly into the viewer's skull when the protagonist has to go through some ridiculous experience to gain some perspective? Watch repeats of The Office instead of wasting your time on this pile of absurdity and inanity.
__label__3 I came in with low expectations and got even less. I'm kind of offended that someone got paid to write this because its essentially a big-budget movie made with a fan-fiction caliber script. The plot riddled with holes, characters speak in clichés and the laws of physics are completely ignored. The female characters are treated with the action-movie standard sexism, and there are some subtle racist undertones as well. Seriously, 12-year-old boys write text messages that are more coherent than this script. The screen writers should use their payday to refund the tickets of everyone who went to see this movie.I'm okay with going a movie just for the special effects, but even that is sub-par. The martial arts choreography is good, and stunning in one scene. The practical effects are believable, but the computer graphics are mostly cartoonish and detract from the visual impact of the film, so its hard to say go see it even if your standard for a good movie is if they blow stuff up in new and interesting ways.I did enjoy the sheer audacity of its failure. Surely the filmmakers had watched even one movie before and knew they had a piece of Star Wars/James Bond ripoff fan fiction on their hands and just tried to be as bad as possible. This movie has a lot of laughs in it, although probably not where the filmmakers intended.
__label__3 Oh my god.First of all, and most importantly, I have nothing against a FUN, entertaining movie. But the only entertainment in the movie was how painful it was at times.Acting: 2/10 Terrible. A fellow moviegoer commented that "You know it was a failure when one of the Wayans brothers was the best piece of acting" It was bad. Dennis Quaid was plain boring. He looked like he was having no fun.Screenplay 1/10 HOW IN HOLY HELL DID THEY GET THIS APPROVED?!! All the memorable lines were the most terrible ones that everyone in the theater laughed at. It felt like a really bad TV show. The end of the movie was WAY more epic than it was supposed to be for a summer action blockbuster. Not intelligent, not funny, and not cohesive whatsoever. The setting changed about every 15 minutes, going all over the world. And brace yourself stereotypical, cheesy, predictable romance too.Special Effects/Editing 3/10 Some of the obvious fully computer rendered scenes looked worse than the old star wars flicks. (The polar bear moment and the planes flying over the pyramids made many laugh) Other scenes, such as the Paris action looked good. Way too many explosions, even more than Michael Bay would want. The editing cut to different shots faster than any action movie I've ever seen. There were plenty of "What the hell just happened?" moments.Its a big G.I BLOW Unfortunately.For more info: http://news.yahoo.com/s/ap/20090804/ap_en_ot/us_film_gi_joe
__label__3 In a word... "Flat." Seeing this remake only left me wanting to see the old cartoon once again. I loved the old cartoon as a kid and can easily recall many details decades later. Conversely, I just saw the new one and it just blends in with a bunch of other fantasy-adventure /superhero / CGI remakes of late.In general, this remake just felt like it had no soul.In particular, they didn't develop the characters much. It was obvious the film-makers didn't care about the main characters much so why should we either? I guess the special effects or CGI were impressive, especially the talking animals, but that's been done so much its just not a big deal anymore. They can't base a whole movie on those effects anymore and just touch on a few songs. The singing and music in the old version was so much more developed, energetic and memorable.The guest voice-overs were good but too recognizable. I kept thinking of Bill Murray talking into a mic instead of watching the fake bear talk. To be fair, Ben Kingsley pulled off the character very smoothly. But why did they make that orangutang so huge? Was he King Kong's lost brother? And voiced by Christopher Walken it really didn't make sense. Jungle animals are already awesome, you don't need to enlarge them or make up new ones.A high point of the movie was when Mogli helped the elephant baby from the pit. More of this tenderness would have been welcome, which brings me to the next point...This story was always potentially very violent; we're talking about jungle law here- brutal life and death is always near. But while the old cartoon version separated that violence enough from reality to make it safe and enjoyable for a younger audience, the new one crossed the line. It was too real, in my opinion, for most kids under about 11 or so. True, many kids play violent computer games from earlier ages now, so some would argue they can "handle it", but is that the kind of trend for them you want to support? I would argue the more we desensitize the youth now, the less sensitive they will be later on when they may be taking care of us when we're seniors. Do we want such thoroughly insensitive people running society in the future? So, while yes- it was exciting, I think this production really narrowed their audience down to the preteens (for whom it may be too violent) and the teenagers (for whom it may be too kiddie- you know with the talking animals and all). So sorry Disney, I've so often loved your movies, but not this time.
__label__3 When I went to see this movie I kept thinking about how great was the cartoon movie with all its extravagant and funny characters: Balu, the elephants, even evil characters like Kaa (the snake) were fun to watch. How could I even forget a minor character like the vultures, and their jokes on Shere Khan? Their humor was great in contrast with the tiger's ego. I thought I would revive all those memories watching this movie. I was wrong.This movie is lacking of various things. First, a good plot. Second, good characters with relevant appearances. Third, humour (nonexistent if we ignore Balu) and a good atmosphere for songs (is this supposed to be a musical?). And fifth but not least, WHAT IS KING KONG DOING IN KING LOUI'S TEMPLE?? What they have done to that poor monkey is unbearable.MY SUMMARY(SPOILERS):King Loui doesn't dance. Shere Kahn doesn't bother to chase Mogli through the jungle. Why would him anyway? He already knows the plot. Kaa's appearance in the movie is what in Spanish we call "postureo". He appears once. He narrates Mowgli's origins to the spectator (how plot convenient...). He tries to eat the kid with no success and fades away to live happily ever after. The rest can be summarized in: f*ck logic. I have been walking for two days to get to the human village, and now I can just run away for 10 minutes with a torch in hand to get just where the movie started. Hi, my name is Mowgly and I like to burn down jungles in my free time (appaluse). AH AND THE VULTURES DON'T EVEN SPEAK IN THE WHOLE MOVIE, SAME AS THE ELEPHANTS which are considered gods among the other animals (wtf) and magically appear in the last scene to save the day.Please re watch the old movie instead of wasting your money in this thing. Why Loui?... Why?...
__label__3 I doubt I'll ever watch or even remember this movie again because of its lack of emotion/depth/creativity. Really it leaves us with nothing at the end, not even a little bit of warmth. Terrible story line that had me only focus on how beautiful the forest was looking since it failed to deliver neither laughter nor message. Not a single moment of "oh I'm glad I'm watching this movie". It was more like "I just hope the next part will be good" through out the whole movie. First the acting from main character was so bad he had a same type of face expression every scene. Even the voices from other animals were completely emotionless I could not relate to any of the character's feelings. Second there was nothing new or unseen in this new jungle book. I did not mind the slightly different story line from the original since I was expecting something more innovative from the start. However, It was the same old "man stuck in a jungle" type of story that anyone could come up with, I feel like the popularity it is able to gain right now is fully due to its graphics. Most of the movies that do not have a very good plot at least give me a few chuckles on their way. This movie even failed to do that, which is why I felt scammed by the current reviews out here and bothered to actually create an account, make an honest review.
__label__3 Well I saw huntsman the opening night, midnight showing. I went into it expecting something amazing. It was...alright. Honestly the visuals were really good. I enjoyed the how well Chris Hemsworth and Charlize Theron portrayed their roles and drew me into the story. The little girl that played Snow White at the beginning had me entranced, and everything was going great - then she grew up.Kristen Stewart as the female lead really ruined the whole film for me. She was depressingly emotionless and despite everyone in the film's world wanting to save and protect a otherwise unlikable character due to the character's performance, left me neither identifying with nor liking the character. I felt for the little girl at the beginning, who was easily 5 times the actor Kristen Stewart was in this film. Everyone I went with felt the same. Throughout the film she is very quiet, and what lines she has aren't memorable at all (again, no emotion). Chris Hemsworth pours his heart out to her in one scene, and while she was asleep and ultimately it was his kiss that woke her...she goes on, cold and emotionless - feeling nothing for him. Very sad, as the first 10 minutes had me very excited for the rest of the film - but then it just fell apart when she failed time and time again to react or become a likable character. She acts the same in the Twilight movies, as far as I understand - so I'll continue to stay away from those as well. The rest of the movie was a good production, though it dragged a little at parts. To avoid the same problem in the future, I will simply abstain from anything Kristen Stewart is in. If you want to see this, but haven't seen say - Avengers, see that instead.I'd wait for Redbox on this one.
__label__3 It's an interesting retelling of Snow White, and I rather enjoyed the idea of Snow White ending up with the Huntsman as opposed to the fairly personality-less prince.One gets the feeling with this film, though, that Snow White (portrayed by Kristen Stewart) deserves the prince with no personality, as she has very little personality herself. I cannot call this film completely awful, because casting Chris Hemsworth as the Huntsman I believe was an excellent choice. He is full of animation and character, even a bit godlike (Thor-reference intended) and is the perfect hero for the film.You get sort of a Twilight feeling with this film, though, because Kristen Stewart makes what was supposed to be warrior-Snow White seem like she needs all the supporting cast to give her a personality and save her. She isn't her own person in this film or the Twilight films.Charlize Theron, being the excellent villain that she is, ends up overacting and makes her role seem extremely over-dramatic. Obviously, the evil queen is supposed to be desperate and, well, evil, but you get the feeling that Theron is actually over-acting to make up for Stewart's lack of it. Even when she's supposed to be happy, you get the feeling that nothing is going on in her head. Stewart's method of acting seems to be empty one's head of everything and say your lines. Toward the end, when she makes her speech to rally the troops, it is the most emotional we have ever seen her in the film and I had high hopes. Unfortunately, due to the writing, she essentially said nothing, and I feel like the passion of the troops was totally non sequitur to her speech. The only parts of the film that had characters I and others didn't hate were the bits with only the dwarfs and with the children at the beginning. Time was not kind to Snow White. She seemed to have lost not only her personality but her looks as well. Kristen Stewart's lack of acting seems to make everyone saying she's pure disingenuous, and even with Chris Hemsworth staring at her in love and admiration trying to convince you that she's worthy of it, as you watch her you get the feeling that perhaps he injured his head at some point previously. Even Chris Hemsworth and Charlize Theron, the most likable characters for the majority of the film, make you hate them because of the writing of the film. Perhaps the director told Charlize Theron to overact, but both ended up seeming ridiculous because of the writing. The religious bit confused me too: at a point toward the beginning of the film, Snow White says an Our Father and acts pious, but not only was there no religion in the original Snow White, there are no other references to religion throughout the film. You'd think there were many points where she might pray, but did not, so I can't see why they felt the need to include it at the beginning. It certainly wasn't to make the film longer. It was too long already.Thus, I give this film a 3/10, and I can only hope that if they actually go through with Snow White and the Huntsman 2, they change the casting of Snow White to an actress more suited to the role. Dye Emma Watson's hair black and cast her (if she isn't tired of acting nowadays...)! I wouldn't mind it, honestly. Also, they might need to change writers...and director...and most things about the film...except the visual effects and Chris Hemsworth. I'd say don't change Theron, but her character died, so...
__label__3 What a load of nonsense. Those were 127 almost completely redundant minutes. It doesn't happen often but after about the first third I was considering leaving the cinema and only the ticket price kept me in my seat and the vague hope that something might change. It didn't.Where to start? There was no build-up, no climax (more of an anti-climax actually) and no development of any sort. There was a bunch of characters that fit together awkwardly at best: imagine Buffy the Vampire Slayer, Aragorn, Luke Skywalker and the guys from Hot Fuzz against the Wicked Witch and the Terminator - that about covers it. There was nothing that made you feel one way or the other about the characters since they all had their reasons for doing what they did and ... since it fit the plot it was fine anyway and they didn't need to change. The whole piece had a plot and general look and feel that couldn't make up its mind if it was going to be Chronicles of Narnia, Joan of Arc or ... Pan's Labyrinth? There were, however, a lot of pointless details that didn't matter to the plot but they were just there - take the queen's background, take the troll bridge, I could go on. There were a lot of over-acted emotions, like the queen screaming at people in slow motion for no apparent reason (both the screaming and the slow motion); and I cannot remember seeing Snow White in any shot in which she did not have tears in her eyes.I still wonder where they wanted to take this picture. Dark fantasy with sex-appeal and gritty violence might have been a good idea but it seems the writer and production designers were too busy being politically correct to go all the way. There are a few things that I liked, which is why I give the film a 3 but those are just details and would contain spoilers. Like this the film just seems to try and capture as many tastes as possible but delivers nothing really. And then suddenly it's over as if the producer had said: "that's enough now." Maybe that was actually a blessing in disguise. Reading the original fairytale is still more exciting.
__label__3 Spectacular special effects don't overcome an underwritten relationship between the title characters and a hopelessly miscast Kristen Stewart as Snow White. A scenery-chewing Charlize Theron and a late-in-the-game appearance by the seven dwarfs add some life to the tedium until Stewart - lacking the charm, innocence, and spirituality that the part cries out for - sucks it out again.The film recalls "The Matrix" in which an interesting premise is dealt a severe blow by a woefully uncharismatic actor portraying a character who the universe of the film needs to rally around in order to survive. But whereas "The Matrix" had enough going for it to overcome the vacuum that is Keanu Reeves, "Snow White and the Huntsman" grinds to a plodding halt when Stewart weakly attempts a "Henry V"-like oration to stir up the troops. And when the seven dwarfs (which offer some delightful cameos by actors like Bob Hoskins and Ian McShane) sagely proclaim that Snow White is The One who can save the kingdom, one looks at Stewart's blank gaze and wonders how they reached that conclusion.Chris Hemsworth provides a perfectly unobjectionable generic beefcake presence as the huntsman of the title, but the script fails to evolve the relationship between the two in any way and the end of the film depicts Hemsworth standing anonymously in the crowd as the crown is inevitably placed on Snow White's head. Then, we are treated to the sight of the new queen standing uncomfortably in front of her subjects in awkward silence, as though no one gave any thought to what might happen next. But the same thing could be said of the screenwriters after typing the words "Act One, Scene One."
__label__3 When I was invited to see Snow White I thought "no way I'm seeing this". Then I saw the trailer, and read that Kristen Stewart was playing Snow White. I got curious and watched it.The plot had some minor holes and was rushed so that they could fit some scenes imagined by the writers into the original fairy tale.Everyone who I discussed the movie with agreed that Kristen Stewart lacked grace, beauty, and talent. She just doesn't fit the Snow White part, and apparently the mockery on her not being able to smile has some grounds. I didn't like the acting on Charlize Theron as Ravenna, but that's just me. The supporting actors were pretty good, I liked the acting on most dwarfs and some other characters.There were also some absurd scenes, like flaming arrows knocking down trees. There were some details I thought interesting, though, such as Snow White's nails being dirty. The scenarios were very (too much?) imaginative and nicely displayed.Overall, a 3 out of 10. And it's not just me, 10 out of 12 people who I watched the movie with thought it was a waste of time and money.
__label__3 I am very mixed about this film. Firstly, as many critics have singled out, I must praise Angelica's acting, mainly as the first good, then evil Maleficent. Now, while I could feel a little sorry for her being unable to bring this curse off Aurora, having to see, one of my best villains, Maleficent turn back into good is just unnatural. It ends up looking like a beloved Disney film that has been changed for the sake of young girls, who is only a little part of the audience, avoiding simple but effective scares and risks, basically throwing out what many Disney fans remember about Sleeping Beauty. Parts of the film echoes parts of Wicked and Frozen. Of course, most people don't rush into romantic relationships but seeing Disney seemingly apologise for making traditional relationships in past films happen, even though this is what happened in the era the film is set, is just horrid. I mean no offence to Frozen at all, since it is one of my most favourite Disney films of all time. But stealing the concept of real "true love" from Frozen is pathetic. If it wasn't for Disney with its stupid audience research, it could have easily looked even further into the darkness of Maleficent, which is almost no such thing in this film.
__label__3 This movie fails to show why a remake was necessary. It fails to bring the morals of the old movie into the modern world and it fails to develop the characters overall. It also shows a disappointing amount of visual inconsistency just to promote one Hollywood Star. The female-female-relationship as central point rather than the male- female-relationship is nothing new since Frozen. In fact, Prince Philip, who is even more one-dimensional than his cartoon-version, is still there at the end to be the one and only. Considering how easy this film avoids any conversational aspects between Aurora's real parents and "adoptive parents" just shows that plot development and modern problems were not what the writers thought about. Aurora's mother dies off-screen and nobody, not her husband, not her daughter ever seem to take any notice. Just to avoid any problems between the two mother figures in this movie.Not only the Queen and the young Prince are loosing screen-time and depth, the three good fairies in the Original had personalities, while they are now only a bunch of annoying and incompetent additions for the sake of obvious humor. The third fairy never actually was able to give her wish. The movie never explains this plot whole. Maleficent is a movie starring a cartoonist version of Angelina Jolie in a movie about Angelina Jolie. No character apart from her has been developed with any love or thought. They are all background for more Angelina Jolie. Overall I am deeply disappointed. If you compare the old "Sleeping Beauty" with the new movie you can see the Disney tendency to go from timeless movies to something that looks great but communicates nothing. Don't watch it with your children, they will not learn more than what they can get from the old movies. Don't watch it for the sake of nostalgia, because it's unable to provide the same quality it used to, before 3D was able to overcome any plot wholes. And don't watch it for the sake of crafty 3D. The same expected shots of flying, sunsets and growing plants are used over and over again. You will get tired of seeing the same overly perfect shot repetitively.
__label__3 The closing credit's lazy version of the classic "Once Upon a Dream" theme-song actually echoed how I felt after leaving this movie: drained and disappointed. If the movie is billed as a prequel of sorts to the original or at least Maleficent's version of the story, there are too many plot-holes and disappointments.I'l start though, with its few redemptions:1.) It's nice to see a maternal relationship between Maleficent and Aurora, but it makes no sense compared to the original storyline.2.) The few minutes of screen time we have for the 3 fairy godmothers are enjoyable.3.) The relationship between Maleficent and her raven-like servant is entertaining at times.4.) It's nice to see that Prince Philip (as poorly as he is casted) doesn't just get to have the princess at the end of the story. Again, though, this makes no sense compared to the original.Now the bad...1.) The backstory of how Maleficent becomes evil and vengeful before Aurora's coronation misleads the audience into thinking that the Aurora part of the story will have some kind of connected flow to the original. It clearly doesn't.a.) In the original, a major conflict is Maleficent's inability to locate Aurora's sanctuary in the forest. In this adaptation, Maleficent finds her right away. So much for the 16th-birthday suspense in the original.b.) King Stephan quickly but very inexplicably devolves from a father to a tyrant in the new movie. If his long-lost daughter returns to him after 16 years of exile, wouldn't he be a little happier to see her and not just lock her away (a la Rapunzel) in a castle room?c.) The forest-meeting between Prince Phillip and Aurora makes much more sense in the original. He was at her coronation and knows "once upon a dream" that they will be together. In this newer adaption, he just finds her by "getting lost" in the forest. How can he do that when Maleficinet has placed an "impenetrable" thornbush-wall around the entire Moorsland which even the king's best guards can't enter?d.) Maleficent's magic can put anyone to sleep on a moment's notice. Why, then, when she is freed from the iron net in the castle-battle does she not place a quick spell upon the king and guards once she arises (by replaced wings) to escape them more easily?e.) She also has a perfect opportunity to create her goblin-like guards (from the original) from the soldiers who try to burn down her thornbush-wall, but that would then, of course, require her to actually use them to help her find Aurora as in the original. These guards work well on a comic-relief level in the original, but no need for them here?2.) Teenage Aurora arguably looks and sings much more like an adult in the original, but the new casting choice for Aurora looks and sounds much more juvenile than that. If the "Once Upon a Dream" song and dance is such an iconic part of the original, Disney really misses that opportunity by poor casting here. The girl doesn't sing nor dance.3.) Again, very minimal screen time is given to the 3 fairy godmothers. If they are the protectors of Aurora in the original and are the most entertaining ones in the story (remember the pink/ blue battles?), why on earth do they get such little inclusion here? It just becomes a dramatic convenience for Aurora to feel closer to Maleficent as her "actual" fairy godmother, I guess. Cute idea, but too far from the original.4.) I should leave a Disney movie (or at least a Disney adaptation) feeling nostalgic for and still connected to the original-- not disappointed that the adaptation is so far removed from the original storyline. Maybe the filmmakers are hoping for an audience who hasn't seen the original Sleeping Beauty and who will therefore be too naive to notice the difference. However, they could have done a much better job with the storyline's logic, the casting choices, and the overall connectedness to make the audience feel that investing in or looking back at the original would be a happy and fun thing to do-- not a personal mission to prove to themselves why you still can't beat the original.
__label__3 I don't know how to describe it, how to put my finger on it, but it's pure and simply boring and it does not sink me into the story, it makes me want to fall asleep.The story could have been good, but it was poorly execute. It feels broken, tangled in a silly way and the actors play is anything but credible. I started watching it 3 times and only got to the middle of it as I find it has no substance and nothing interesting.Simply it is no "The mission" no "The fountain" no nothing I would want to watch to the end.I give it 3 stars for the settings, landscapes and for the idea, nothing else.
__label__3 In a way the movie reminds me of Jackie Chan's The Myth. Both follow the story of a researcher in a quest to find ancient artifact. Along the way his consciousness is mysteriously and magically transported across space and time. Thus, he relives the past life in awkward parallel perspective. It has all sorts of epic romance fantasy elements, all of them are merely skin deep, and most importantly it lacks any charm on the characters.The main problem is the movie tries so hard to pack beautiful scenery, it sporadically shift sequences without establishing the character in any meaningful manner. First act alone sees myriad of subplots, it immediately enters a conspiracy, political and love banters. Note that it opens with two different timelines and stories, so when the movie introduces predicament so suddenly, it barely gives any sense of familiarity for the characters and audience probably wouldn't care much for them.Writing is similar to astrology reading, fortune telling, or straight up fortune cookie gibberish. It wants to be a romantic lore, yet it sounds very pretentious with its "love conquers all" cliché. This ultimately ruins the characters as even though the cast is good, the material barely give them any depth or recognizable trait other than fantasy wannabes. The drive for relationship is simply absent.It doesn't create momentum, and the drab pace continues, or even worsens towards the end. It's as though the vistas are the actual star and these people are the background. There are some good views here, it's clearly an above average production with costumes, intricate sets and occasional action scattered between. However, without amiable personalities, it becomes a boring escapade with cheap plastic romance.Flair for aesthetic won't help much if the core human drama is overwhelmingly barren.
__label__3 My wife and I really enjoyed the first Captain America and looked forward to this after reading some reviews. After watching the movie I have to ask: "What movie did you people see?" The camera work must have been done by a three-year-old. People were moving at warp speed during fight scenes, but you could only see an extreme close-up of about one square foot at a time. Shouldn't you see the whole picture instead of checking the actors for nose and ear hair? And what happened to the human factor? It's like they put together a ten minute script and then called 'Action!'. The fight scenes were too many and too exaggerated -- plus there are only about a dozen good people in the entire show. It's like Washington DC...everybody's a bad guy wanting to rule the world. I still enjoyed most of Steve and Natasha's exchanges and there was at least two emotional moments in the movie that were good...but they didn't save the story for us.
__label__3 I went to see this movie yesterday with my wife. We both left the theater unfulfilled. Most of the time the movie gave the vibe of one of those promo films that are often run while you are waiting in line of a amusement park attraction. We were waiting for the doors to swing open and to be instructed to enter the trolleys and fasten seat-belts. Pins are for sale for 3,75 $ at the exit.The only thing that didn't fit in was the length of the movie. A very thin storyline was dressed up with all kinds of side-steps extending the movie to over 2 hours. With the ultimate message being: Think Positive and all will be well. A message brought in such a childish way during the anti-climax of the movie that it got the feel of a teen movie.
__label__3 I was looking very much forward to it, since I'm a fan of the original (nostalgia based). 15 minutes into the movie I just knew it was going to be bad.Made by the same director that made the movie 2012, it has the same terrible drama and completely transparent storyline. I'm not even sure if there even is a storyline to this movie.The worst part, aside from all the crying scenes based upon long distance relationships, unresolved father issues and what not, was in fact that the aliens are more primitive than us.You would think that a race with such insane technology have evolved beyond petty and shortsighted impulse driven emotions. It's when you realize that the Queen of the aliens suddenly gets a personal vendetta against a yellow school bus while fighter planes are bombarding her, that the manuscript was written in half an hour in a coffee shop.I really went into this with open eyes and was completely set for loving it, but no. The movie is just pure garbage. I'm sorry...
__label__3 Twenty years ago, the summer blockbuster movie season was changed forever. Independence Day's tale of human perseverance in the face of an overwhelming alien invasion became one of the highest grossing films of the 1990s thanks to a combination of memorable characters and iconic special effect sequences. It was also a film that felt quite standalone with a definite beginning, middle and end to it. Yet Rolland Emmerich and Dean Devlin (who scripted it as well as respectively directing and producing it) came back for more. Moving forward two decades in time, the film promised to build on the first by showing a rebuilt world taking on the threat of renewed invasion. Needless to say, expectations were high. Did it live up to them?The short answer: not at all.Independence Day: Resurgence often feels like it's simply re- treading over old ground, only on a much bigger scale. Many of the iconic moments of the first film are done here from shots of the lunar surface, aerial battles, infiltrating an alien space ship, the destruction of landmarks and much more. Even the film's big threat is really just a much larger version of the ships from the first film (this time an even more improbable 3,000 miles in diameter). Or take the ending when combines the ending of the original film with the duo's first project post ID4. Though the film finds the occasions where it subverts those moments (such as with the original film's most iconic scene), Emmerich and Devlin don't seem to have brought much new to the table here.What they bring instead is the attitude that "bigger is better". From the rebuilt cities we glimpse in the opening moments to the over-sized alien ship, all the film can seem to do is take what came before and give it to us again on a larger scale. Yet despite the two decades that have passed and all the apparent advances in special effects, those featured here are less impressive and less convincing than their 1996 counterparts. Whereas the first film relied on the physical as well as CGI, this film seems to make almost extensive use of CGI throughout including with the aliens themselves. Gone is the sense of reality and physicality that made the first film's effects so effective, replaced by a kind of CGI blandness that could make this film fit in with any other number of would-be disaster epics that came in the wake of the original film. It's as if Emmerich and Devlin forgot what made their earlier work so memorable.That extends to much of the rest of the film as well. Whereas the original film was populated by memorable characters with witty dialogue, this film lacks that completely. We're given a handful of characters from the original film twenty years on, primarily in the form of Jeff Goldblum's David Levinson as well as Bill Pullman's former President Whitmore and Brent Spiner as Doctor Okun, plus cameos from others who really don't add much of anything to the film (most especially Vivica A. Fox) though none of them feel like their anything but caricatures of their original selves. The new cast of characters are scarcely memorable from the recast roles of Dylan Hill and Patricia Whitmore (played by Jessie Usher and Maika Monroe) to Liam Hemsworth's pilot Jake to Sela Ward's President Lanford and William Fichtner's General Adams, all of whom are written so bland that no actor in the world could have found a way to make them more memorable. Like Emmerich's White House Down three years ago, he managed to put an impressive cast into an otherwise unmemorable film.Indeed, the word "unmemorable" describes the end result of Independence Day: Resurgence. Despite its pedigree, the return of both the original filmmakers and some members of its original cast, not to mention twenty years of advances in special effects technology the end result is a film that isn't half as good or half as memorable as the original. Instead it's a bland piece of work, filled with what should be eye-catching special effects that instead remind of us of just how much better the original film was.All of which leads me to ask a question. Rolland, Dean: you had twenty years to prepare. Was this really the best you could come up with?
__label__3 They made the first film again, with a few more and bigger bangs, unoriginal boring aliens you've seen the like of so many times before and an even more cheesy script than the first movie. Most of the cast just went through the motions, many of the younger ones ought to be seeking other forms of employment. The CGI was epic in scale but not in originality,the story hackneyed and clichéd. OK it's not a film to be taken with any sort of seriousness, but this was just poor.On the opening afternoon there were just 5 of us in a 200 seat theatre - but it was a dull day and I guess most people were out voting in the EU referendum (or working!), but maybe the mediocre press reviews had an effect.They shouldn't bother to resurrect the aliens unless they can bring something a bit more original to the screen. I wish I'd have joined the rest of the family in the screen next door for The Jungle Book rehash, which they said was very good.
__label__3 The Terminator is a character idolized by thousands of people around the world. The imagery - along with unconscious symbols - made this character an icon for generations. Jim Cameron ingenuity (with the help of Bill Wisher) gave us two movies that complement each other, folding the story in ways ever more interesting each time you watch them. Action packed, fun and original. We helped spread the word on Terminator mythology. How come a movie studio using their rights to use a character build up such a opportunity-jackpot-halfbaked popcorn movie just to make cash out of loyalty of this huge fan base? I felt betrayed and sad when I saw this (God permits) last installment on this sequel. What have they done to my robot? What did they do with my movie?
__label__3 Unless you call this movie a masterpiece. Then you are.Damn 1,000 word limit. Gotta make this quick.Spoilers.The film is 2.5 hours long, yet feels like 5.2, and there are a few reasons for this. One of which is the fact that a preponderance of the first act is amateurish, conflict-free exposition, which does not bode well for repeat viewings.The "learning about the dream world" scene is atrocious. No conflict. Both Leo and Page's characters already knew what was being explained. The similar "learning about the matrix" scene in The Matrix did it right by having one character not know anything. Plus, there was conflict. Neo gets his ass kicked and fails to make the building jump. Much more entertaining.There's another problem with the whole section of bending the landscape where Leo explains the negative aspects of altering the dream world. The closest we get to seeing the dream world altered was Leo becoming Mr. Charlie, yet the most that happens then is a bunch of extras turn and look at Leo. That's it. The idea was not exploited. You literally have to go out of your way to miss that opportunity. Hell, that Mr. Charles scene is shorter than the scene that explains why altering the dream world is bad! Let's not forget this whole idea of one corporation one-upping another has absolutely no personal ramifications for anyone on screen or in the audience. It would have greatly amped up the internal conflict if Leo had to struggle with the notion that helping the guy who could help him would endanger someone else close to him, or us, or someone else. ANYTHING could have worked better than an energy contract that means less to me than my neighbor's bath mat. Come on. The totems were handled very poorly. All we need to know is their purpose. We don't need to know anything else, yet the film keeps piling on needless information.If this is a heist film, where is the threat of being caught? A van falls for an endless amount of time. Joseph Gordon-Levitt floats bodies down a hallway for half an hour, real-time. The guy from Bronson does his thing, whatever the hell that was. These are not complex tasks or events, but rather straight-forward in nature. Dragging them out for a solid chunk of the film is what creates the glacial pace and makes a long film seem even longer.Inception has no real villain. You can make a case for Cotillard, but she is an internal enemy. She never takes a "physical" presence and never threatens anyone except Leo. Everyone else is dealing with faceless assassins. That makes it feel distant from the rest of the action. It doesn't even have anything to do, emotionally, with Leo's goal of getting home to see his kids. None of this is tied together. Leo didn't even know what the hell was going on with Cillian and never even knew of the outcome until after the fact. He's separated from the physical manifestation of his goal for a majority of the film. I ended up not caring if the plan succeeded. If it was all somehow tied together, the audience would be able to experience that great emotional catharsis that everyone was talking about...but that didn't happen.In fact, Leo is so separated from the actual plot that you can literally put Levitt in his place and not even need the hero in the dream world at all! Hell, you can even put Page there, since all she does after designing the boring and lifeless dream worlds is hang out with the guys and tell Leo he's crazy. I really wish she had something else to do besides play the part of the fifth wheel.Leo's lack of involvement in the main action of the story creates a 'so what?' moment when the problem is solved for him, and I can think of absolutely no reason why the hero should not be the one to conquer the main conflict. Brody kills the shark in Jaws. He doesn't send Hooper and Quint out to do his dirty work while he stays behind to deal with his fear of water. It's integrated. The hero is forced into dealing with the physical, and in turn, but learn to conquer his internal fears before he can conquer his external opponent. This is Screen writing 101, Lesson 1, and Nolan got that wrong. That's why I don't believe the reports that he spent 10 years writing the script since it only took me 148 minutes to figure out exactly what was wrong with it.Not to mention the conceit that to enter someone else's dream and control it means that you would have to control your own subconscious, which they state elsewhere is impossible. Way to go, genius.Pretty much everything this film does wrong, The Matrix does right. Watch that instead.PS: The 'taking a scene from the middle and putting it at the beginning' gag reached its peak effectiveness in 2002 and has absolutely no place in modern films. It's getting as bad as that tired old 'It's all a dream' scenario. Oh, wait...
__label__3 First, let me say the Lord of the Rings movies were all first-rate and stayed pretty close to the original Tolkien books. Unfortunately, The Hobbit is not, because it does not. It really is a bad movie by design. Choices were made to add slapstick comedy and fabricate added story lines which bloat, rather than add, to the movie, and quite simply to stray from the book liberally (presumably) for commercial reasons. The choice to do so is curious given the overwhelming success (commercial and critical) of the LOTR formula of being faithful to the books.Radagast, for example, who was mentioned in name only in the book, appears in the movie as something of an idiot wizard riding a sleigh powered by eight tiny... bunnies. I'm not kidding. This is perhaps the worst example of how Peter Jackson has botched the story and put the LOTR movie franchise at risk of ruin, presumably to appeal to a younger crowd and stretch it into 3 movies for commercial purposes. There are many other examples of this, which cause you to leave Tolkien's world and wonder why the story was cheapened and botched at the hands of a director who did so well with the LOTR trilogy.I didn't mind fleshing out the 'necromancer' story line that was only hinted at in the book. But so many of the best scenes in the first part of the book were all disappointing in the movie, having been altered for the worse. Lastly, I don't like how they changed the character of Bilbo Baggins. In the book, Bilbo (and the dwarfs for that matter) are basically out- matched and scared when the meet up with each of the foes in the first part of the book. Bilbo, after reluctantly joining the group, is basically scared and miserable the whole first part of the book. In the movie, Bilbo is portrayed more as a home-body who'd just rather be at home, but not terribly scared of trolls or orcs or goblins or dragons, they're just not really his cup of tea. And the somewhat fabricated theme toward the end of Bilbo deciding to help the dwarfs 'find their home' and help them get their home back is another disappointing alteration.There are many smaller details of the movie that also work to cheapen it, but I think you get the picture. The only reason for 2-stars instead of 1-star is the production values, which are as good as the LOTR trilogy. The movie is nominated for a makeup and production design Academy Awards, but a telling comparison with the LOTR trilogy is the absence of any nominations for writing or direction or picture. Both 'Fellowship' & 'Return' won best adapted screenplay,and were nominated for Best Picture ('Return' won). The Hobbit could be nominated for worst-adapted screenplay- and seems was a conscious, if incredibly poor, choice by the writers and director- who did so well adapting LOTR to the screen.Equally disappointing is what might have been. Instead of adding superfluous story lines, they could have made The Hobbit much smaller in scale compared to LOTR (which it is) and more personal. Instead of starting with a Bilbo that is something of a home-body and not into adventures, they could have started with a Bilbo who secretly always wanted to go on an adventure- but was too afraid and too conforming to society to do so- until Gandalf pushed him along (in the book Bilbo was always into maps, etc. which is meant to suggest this). From there, they could have portrayed the company of dwarfs as serious and determined in their purpose, but totally unprepared for the challenges that awaited them. There could have also been some focus on how miserable Bilbo was in the conditions- the mud, no food,and longing for home- and the friction and disrespect for him by most of the dwarfs. They might have also included how the elves made fun of them when they arrived in Rivendell, and Gandalf's own disdain for many of their failings, and that their adventure isn't his main concern. Adding a troll scene that was true to the book would make a far more compelling Act I.Act II could have started with the company entering the mountains and the cave scene. Instead of having them fall hundreds of feet through a trap door unscathed, followed by an hour of slapstick gore battle sequences, they could have had the goblins catch them and bring them chained through the tight confines of the dark tunnels in the book, rather than the expansive open pits in the movie. Being faithful to the book in this case would have led to more suspense and terror- like when the Black Riders first appeared in 'Fellowship'. That would have set the stage for Bilbo's encounter with Gollum, and a more tense, drawn-out riddle scene where Bilbo is more at risk and Gollum in control. After a tense escape from the tunnels- once again finding themselves out-matched by the goblins and wargs as they get trapped a top burning pine trees (as in the book), only to be saved once again- this time by the eagles. Expanding the 'necromancer' story line, which I thought a worthwhile addition, might add some time and make it about a 2 hour movie, with still plenty of plot for an additional 2 hour finale.As it was, I came away thinking of a line that Gandalf used after recounting the story of Bullroarer Took to Bilbo early in the movie. When Bilbo replied "you made that up" Gandalf replied, "all good stories have some embellishments." Perhaps this line served as a bad excuse for what was to follow. The Hobbit already was a good fantasy story, as time has proved. It didn't need slapstick and gore embellishments. It's too bad Peter Jackson couldn't leave well enough alone- to the ruin of the LOTR movie franchise.
__label__3 The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2 is a film without any artistic integrity. It was purely made to grab as much cash from its audience as possible. You can sense this in the film which does not have much of a plot, scenes that are purely filler and the story just crawls because the book that it is based on has been split into two which means more padding than a model wearing a Wonderbra.Panem is in chaos Katniss (Jennifer Lawrence) plans to assassinate President Snow (Donald Sutherland.) Snow meanwhile wishes to spring a trap to finish off the rebels. Peeta (Josh Hutcherson) is volatile as he turns his anger towards Katniss. Alma Coin (Julianne Moore) the leader of the rebels who plans to usurp Snow as President has her own agenda. You could say she and Snow are two sides of the same coin.Some of the action is humdrum and poorly lit and Katniss's use of the bow and arrow is almost laughable in this film. Given the first film in this franchise was a decent film, it has been disappointing to see the decline in quality to the sequels.
__label__3 I watched this because I enjoyed the first two. The third was a decline from the Hunger Games 1 and 2 but so much time invested compelled the watching Mocking Jay 2. I was hoping for a great ending for such an anticipated movie and was greatly disappointed.The plot was almost non existent and just rode on the waves of the other movies. The story line was disjointed and herky jerky. The development of the love story was terrible and did not evoke the emotion displayed in the first two. Very let down...I did not read the books, but I'm sure that those true fans were greatly let down. I wish they just took out Hoffman altogether than the way they pieced him in with 60 seconds of total airtime.
__label__3 I must admit when I first heard of the Hunger Games movies I had no idea what all the fuss was about. I'd never heard of the books, so wasn't that excited about the movies. Watched the first one and thought, "yeah, that wasn't too bad". Fast forward to Mockingjay Part 1, and I had already heard it was a bit of a "filler" movie, and not a lot happens. "Fine", I thought. So I suffered it, thinking part 2 will kick ass. Oh, how wrong was I, and so was my wife who, after watching the first film, read all the books. She warned me that Mockingjay part 2 would be pretty emotional, and it just wasn't.I don't know if it was my imagination but, as with other film series like Harry Potter, it was if the actors were bored of the franchise, and just not putting their all into it. I ended up not really caring what happened to any of the characters. The action was flat and a little dull. And as with part 1, the pace of the movie was deadly slow. So disappointing. As my daughter said after the movie had finished, it seemed like the slow sections of the movie needed to be sped up, and the fast sections slowed down. As an example, where Katniss's sister, Primrose gets killed, it was like, she's there, dead, move on. There was no big deal made about it, which I understand was quite a big deal in the book. I might be wrong.I'm always sorry to bad mouth any movie, because I know how much effort goes into making them. My philosophy has always been, if a movie entertains on any level at all, even it it's unintentional, it is a good movie. IE. I'm not a film critic, I'm a film fan.But I'm sorry to say, remembering all opinions are objective, but I found this to be a slow, tedious and wasted opportunity. I'm sad it was one of Philip Seymour Hoffman's last films. It would have nice to have ended on a high, no irony intended.
__label__3 That's one less YA franchise to deal with How many we got left now?Hollywood strikes again with its horrific trend of splitting single books into multiple movies, and surprise! It still doesn't work. Obviously the execs don't care, because we are forced to see two movies no matter how good they are if we want to finish spending time with these characters, but come on guys. Let's stop this please.As for the actual movie, Mockingjay Pt. 2 did manage to improve upon its predecessor. I was generally entertained with and enjoyed the first two HG films, but MJ Pt. 1 was so slow, boring, and sloppy that it soured my taste of the whole franchise. Part 1 suffered from the usual issue with these films as it was totally focused on the set up, and part 2 was totally focused on the payoff. You can't make a well rounded film when focusing on only one of those two things, but every 2-parter will have this issue. But the biggest problem was that these two movies added up to close to 5 hours, and still somehow managed to be riddled with confusing moments and plot holes. The first two Hunger Games films were able to create complete cohesive stories in half the time, but in double the time, Mockingjay churned out something that didn't really make any sense. Character motivations were all over the place, and plot points and lesser characters were severely underdeveloped in certain spots. By focusing too much on minor details and random establishing shots, we were deprived of substance, which should never happen when you have 5 hours to tell one damn story.But there were a few positives of the film. There were some cool traps and set pieces devised by the game makers, and I suppose the ending was somewhat satisfying. And now that I think of it, the acting was much improved in this film, as a lot of actors seemed to be phoning it in with Part 1. It was nice to see Phillip Seymour Hoffman for one last time as well. Glad that they were able to film some of his sequences before his tragic passing.Verdict:Mockingjay Pt. 2 isn't much more worth your money than the first one, and you'd be better off waiting to see it on demand. I'd recommend watching the first one in close tandem though as it will clear up some of the fog that the 2-parter creates. That being said, it isn't the worst thing in the world, and HG remains by far the strongest of these new wave YA adaptations
__label__3 In 740 A.D., in Britain, the disciple of Merlin Maxim Horvath (Alfred Molina) joins to the wicked Morgana le Fay (Alice Krige) and betrays his master. However, the other two disciples of Merlin Balthazar Blake (Nicolas Cage) and Veronica (Monica Bellucci) defeat the evil and Balthazar traps Horvath in a magic vessel and Veronica merges with Morgana and they are trapped in another recipient. Along the centuries, Balthazar unsuccessfully seeks out the Prime Merlian, the only sorcerer capable to destroy Morgana, using a dragon ring and he finally finds him in the present days in Manhattan. The clumsy nerd Dave Stutler (Jay Baruchel) is chosen by a magic dragon ring and Balthazar teaches magic to him. However the sorcerer's apprentice is in love with Becky Barnes (Teresa Palmer) and questions whether he is really the chosen one. The deceptive "The Sorcerer's Apprentice" is an awful collection of clichés and special effects with a dreadful nasal lead actor. The annoying Jay Baruchel is not funny and is also one of the worst actors I have ever seen, and he ruins the film. The predictable story uses all the imaginable clichés, with explosions, car races and special effects trying to be attractive. I do not understand how a producer invests millions of dollars in a film with Jay Baruchel in a lead role, and why Nicolas Cage and Monica Bellucci accepted to work in this flick. Jay Baruchel should use his payment to go to a speech and language pathologist and have acting classes. My vote is three.Title (Brazil): "O Aprendiz de Feiticeiro" ("The Sorcerer's Apprentice")
__label__3 Good grief, where to start with this one.OK, so back in the day Merlin had 3 apprentices, 2 bad, 1 good. The bad one teams up with MorGANNA, sorry to stress that so bad, but thats how they actually say her name in this, its like a convention of fools got together. OK, so MorGANNA teams up with the baddie and there's a fight with Merlin dying.One good apprentice lives on to save the world later. The apprentice seeks the one to defeat the MorGANNA, who incidentally was locked away never to be released, .. locked away.... Yeah you can guess whats going to happen. Flash forward a few years.. decades, centuries... and where in Fat American times.The dweeb American kid has a fat friend and likes the cool girl in school. He wants her to be his GF but an incident happens, where he unleashes MorGANNA and pee's his pants, thus his happy endings with this girl are over.Fast forward another 10 years and the young dweeb with the fat friend is now a grown up dweeb with a fat friend, this is a different fat friend this time. The dweeb goes to Uni and oh my god, you'll never guess it, he meets up with the girl from before. He stalks her a bit and follows her to her to a radio station where she works, this is apparently this is the most excitement our dweeb has had in a while, he gets so excited by stalking her to the radio station.Umm, this ends my review, i didn't watch the rest, i figured the good apprentice regretted his decision to ever talk to the dweeb, and somehow in a series of bumbling events, they kill, oh this is Disney, they lock away MorGANNA again and the world is happy and bright.I gave this a 3 stars. Cause there were 3 apprentices.
__label__3 The worst error concerned the bow thruster at the end. Why was it still running? Almost all other electrical power was out, and a bow thruster would not be on an emergency circuit. When Richard Dreyfuss opens the hatch into the bow thruster shaft, a hurricane force of wind blows into the room. Ship propellers are slow-turning compared to aircraft propellers (so as to avoid cavitation) and are not going to move large quantities of air - hardly any, in fact, as they're not shaped to move low density air. There seemed to be a propeller on either side of the shaft. For air to blow inward, both props would have to be pulling air towards each other. The idea in a bow thruster is to pull water in one end and out the other. Nobody would build an inward-opening hatch below the waterline.Also, it seemed that from the ballast tank (by definition and appearance at the bottom of the ship) they seemed to travel UP a few levels, thus in reality placing them above the bottom of the ship.I found it a bit hard to believe the Captain could have convinced anyone to stay in an underwater room with giant windows showing the ocean behind the glass.
__label__3 Hollywood you better get your act together. Thanks you for spitting out another INSTANTLY forgettable "Blockbuster" Thank God I only paid $4 dollars to see this. Not only can't the Studios come up with original material. The material they remake is worse than the original. If this crap keeps up you will have even less of an audience. A good cast given nothing to chew on and a Director who has made great films and this is what we get? 150 million and the Ballroom set in the original was more impressive?Video games are so prevalent in society that I fear their mind numbing influence is starting to permeate even NON video game derived movies. The original movie was a good solid, involving movie. This remake takes every element of the original and removes what made it involving. I mean EVERY element. There are people out there making these decisions!! And they are paid huge sums to make these decisions! With the talent in front of and behind the camera this is truly frightening as this seems to be the norm at the present.Right from the start there is almost NO set up. We don't know where the ship is, where it is sailing, even what ocean it's on! Things that actually would create some atmosphere like the originals speech by the Captain explaining the origin of Poseidon. Greek God of the Sea. They are sailing on the Mediterranean, to Greece? Get it? Cheesy but involving. You know it gives the proceedings some gravatis, some mystery. In the remake we get nothing, we are are in Video game land, we don't have time for such things.Even the cause for the disaster has absolutely no set up. Happy new year, bang, the tidal wave hits. Unlike the originals slow build up, as it explained WHAT WAS HAPPENING AND WHY! Even the effects in the original worked better. They were simpler but executed as a whole created more of an impact because of the tension that was built up. Again a sense of gravity, HUMAN INVOLVEMENT and Atmosphere! Even in the original, Leslie Nielsen's corny grimace as the wave engulfs the ship. It's goofy but you REMEMBER IT. You know a character we identify with reacting to the impending disaster. It's a very basic cinematic technique. But I guess todays more "sophisticated" audience don't need this kind of thing anymore.There is no human involvement in the wave hitting in this remake. The Captain isn't called to the bridge, no build up, just some crew members we've had no contact with running around. Absolutely unmemorable. The effects are impressive but who cares, I'm not given anything to latch on to.Straight across the board EVERY situation is diminished from the original. The scene chewing conflict between Gene Hackaman and Ernest Borgnine is totally lost in the remake. There is NO conflict with the characters. NONE! It's just one disaster to overcome to the next. You know , like a VIDEO GAME.Even the self sacrificing Shelly Winters death swim has almost no emotional impact because the character doesn't return and die in front of everybody. Like DUH! Hey screen writers perhaps you should learn of something called ELEMENTS OF DRAMA!! Even if you have no talent you could at least COPY the original, not make it worse! Absolutely mind boggling!! If you WANTED to sabotage the original you couldn't have done a better job. UNREAL! All you film lovers just keep repeating "Things will get better" Repeat it like a prayer.
__label__3 I read a common thread in most of the previous reviews: No character development. And that is true. But in a movie like this, we get what we deserve. I think technology is great, but it also has it's downside. It has created a generation of impatient people with very short attention spans. Back when the original Posiedon movie was shown, there was no internet, no one had home computers, no cells phones and no cells phones to surf the net with. Talk about impatience, can't we wait to get home to surf the net. I just think that the director knew today's audience that would go to see this movie did not have the patience to sit through any character development and got to the action as quickly as he could. We reap what we sow.The special effects were good and most of the action scenes were "on the edge of your seat" intense.The thing that really spoiled the movie for me was the ending. ***HERE'S THE SPOILER****. Wasn't it convenient that a life raft with a flare gun was waiting for the survivors as they jumped out of the ship. Am I the only one who thought this to be totally absurd and cliché.
__label__3 This movie epitomizes what is wrong with Hollywood today. Because they lack imagination, the major film studios either copy an idea from a foreign film (Japanese, French, English, especially) or make a sequel or remake of an an existing moneymaker and milk it to death. Where are the original ideas? The Hollywood movie industry (and most of American TV for that matter) has become far too idealistic in my view. The characters are depicted as, not how people really are, but how we would like them to be, and the viewers often emulate what they see on screen as if life actually IS like that. Why should it be all about the 'bottom line'. Out of the top 10 top grossing movies each year, how many actually make a profit? It seems to be a matter of just churning out this sort of garbage and hoping for the best. Why don't the major studios spend the same amount of money making fewer but better films? One wonders sometimes how people are convinced into investing good money in making this rubbish. Poseidon? So far this 'blockbuster' has grossed $50 million  a long way from the $140 million it cost to make. Chances are it won't even break even. It becomes very obvious right from the start that it is formulaic and clichéd. For example, why anyone in their right mind would take a woman and her young son along with the exploring party is anyone's guess. Probably because they prove useful along the way. The Hispanic busboy (Valentine) who tags along was the obvious candidate to die being a nonentity, an unknown actor. It's all squarely aimed at the 'demographic'  the 13-30 group. That's why there is always a child involved in the story, why most of the characters are 30 years old  and good looking. That's why we have a politically correct cast with a black captain, Hispanic entertainers, etc. There is a always a love interest to attract the female segment of the audience and there is always a happy ending one way or another. We have the usual combination of 'B' list actors and those desperate for work, who go through the motions of what passes for acting these days. 'Stand on your mark and say your line when it's your turn'. Don't the directors realize that when people talk to one another, they often interrupt one another? Robert Altman knows this but few others. The special effects are good but with a few too many quick camera movements that are hard on the eye after a while. After only a few minutes I realized that I had seen this movie before in all its forms. Even though the backdrop changes, the character development is always the same. The guy who cares only for himself discovers that he has some redeeming features, The hero will do heroic things and maybe make the supreme sacrifice to save others. Father and son/daughter will reconcile their differences, the coward becomes brave, etc.etc. I've seen it all before.
__label__3 If you watched this movie while half asleep, it would appear to be a thrilling adventure movie. But if you are too focused, the numerous flaws and problems with the script become readily apparent. This is the story of a luxury cruise ship capsized by a gigantic rogue wave and thus begins a fight for survival as a small band of people try to climb "up" to the bottom of the ship to escape before the whole thing sinks. Typical Hollywood blockbuster fare, but the problems begin right away when the script telegraphs who is going to die and then contrives rescue situations (come on - a little boy is going to wander away on a capsized ship? And then get stuck inside a metal cage? While the water is quickly rising? Jeepers!). The Kurt Russell character then has to become a hero by swimming 150 feet (or was it yards) on one breath to turn off the ship propellers, an operation he would not be able to do if the ship was upright, everything was dry, and he had all the time in the world. But, lucky for him, it was so simply marked. And then, as the group is running out of time, the seams of the ship burst and water begins shooting through the bulkhead ... even though that portion of the ship is ABOVE the water level and, even if it were submerged, pressure would be high enough to burst bulkhead seams designed to be hundreds of feet underwater. This whole movie left me feeling like I got ripped off. Pick up the original and watch that instead. Watching this would be a big mistake.
__label__3 The first movie was serviceable but this sequel is just trash. Despite the first Alice movie being mediocre at best, it made a lot of money so here we have a sequel that shouldn't have been made. It ruins even the slightest intrigue the first one had. And gets rid of any magical flare when it comes to the characters. I know when it comes to the message it tries to convey about the importance of time. To choose your own path and make the most of it. But a movie's core message is not enough the carry the movie. Despite the high budget it still comes off as a movie with cheesy CGI and lame scenarios. This sequel tries to delve more into the Wonderland characters and their past but destroys the presence and the charisma they once had. Mad Hatter played by Johnny Depp once again came off super annoying. It just seemed like the whole cast was just there for the paycheck. At least in the first one the characters somewhat had a presence and at least seemed like they were trying. The narrative is just all over the place and came off like a huge mess. Over it being a magical fun time...Kids will be super bored with this one. And the adults will get a headache. 3.5/10
__label__3 There is a common theory that Lewis Caroll was high on LSD when he made up the story of Alice in Wonderland. A concept that wouldn't be completely misplaced given its lunacy and a particular insinuation of certain consumables affecting Alice and her state of being. The truth of how it became is far more innocent but it doesn't stop people making their own assumptions, much like the reasoning as to why it attracted Tim Burton and Johnny Depp. The 2010 movie was a cocktail of over-cooked CGI and relied heavily on its main ingredient, another haughty creation from Depp who, thanks to his Jack Sparrow fame, wore the mantle of one of the most prominent character actors of our generation. At the time the visuals were considered a revelation, but where they succeeded the script severely lacked and a much loved story was exhaustively drawn out. Muppets Most Wanted director James Bobin takes the helm (or the blame - depending on how you want to look at it) with all of the original cast returning to their roles including; Helena Bonham Carter, Alan Rickman, Stephen Fry and Mia Wasikowska as Alice.We find Alice at the beginning of the movie as the Captain of a ship which is threatened to be taken away from her unless she gives up her family home, a deal her Mother struck in a bid to avoid financial ruin. Feeling betrayed, Alice makes a run for it and finds a magic portal through a huge glass mirror. It doesn't take long before we're propelled back into Wonderland through a vortex of swirling colours and flashing images. An epileptic nightmare. Alice instantly finds familiarity in the form of Absolem et al before they inform her that the Mad Hatter is dying and the only thing that will save him is if Alice believes that his family are still alive. She then sets upon a mission to go back in time to warn them of the danger that may cause their death - This is the kind of story that seems to be clutching at the proverbial straw but at that definitive moment within the first 15 minutes of the movie, you know exactly what to expect.What made Alice in Wonderland so appealing was the premise of such memorable characters. Wasikowska seems to slip back into her role with ease, however, she had some practice playing a similar role in Guillermo del Toro's Crimson Peak (2015). It's not to say that she is a one trick pony, but it is difficult to distinguish variety in her performances. The introduction of (a very reserved) Sacha Baron Cohen as Time and a new antagonist has a promising start and receives the majority of the laughs. Unfortunately his character soon becomes second rate to Helena Bonham Carter's bellowing Red Queen and her painful over- acting begins to grate. Even Johnny Depp's Mad Hatter becomes a pathetic re-imagining as he limps through the movie offering very little performance. Namely, his forced lisp which makes his voice sounds like a creepy, old man that forgot to put his teeth in. The real shame is the misuse of the rest of the original cast who are forced to provide mere cameos in comparison to the lead actors. This is the final performance from Alan Rickman before his untimely death and the only regret is that he is barely given enough screen time to make an impact on the movie at all.James Bobin does very well to mimic the style of the first movie. The audience are dazzled with so much visually, it appears like a desperate attempt to make up for the distinct lack of story. Alice Through the Looking Glass is a lot more structured (believe it or not) than the first instalment but, once again, it suffers from irritating pacing issues and poor performances from their key actors. On a positive note, thanks to the hypnotic special effects this is an entertaining children's movie and, regardless of the crude insinuations, that is most likely what Lewis Carroll intended it to be when he told it to 10 year old Alice Liddell as they rowed down the Thames. Whether that was the intention of Tim Burton is another thing altogether. But for the adults, this one will send you a little MAD.
__label__3 A movie too many, a laugh too few. This installment of Shrek is so unlike the first two in terms of energy and humor that its almost like one of those cheesy made-for-TV or straight-to-video versions that the studios make just to cash in on the popularity of a title.The movie slogs through a story about Shrek and Fiona having to replace the deceased frog king unless they can find another heir. Shrek's time at the "high school" is so tortured that you can almost smell the coffee the writers had to brew to get through the brainstorming sessions.Not good, I'm sorry to say. The first two were so clever that this ends up seeming...well...crappy by comparison.Part of success is knowing when to stop.
__label__3 Third installments are the hardest acts in the world. The second movie was commissioned on the popularity of the first. And if they green-light a third it must mean that the second was as equally or better than the first. So much expectation. So much to live up to.I felt sorry for Shrek the Third. It felt long. The cast seemed like strangers again. Not enough Fiona and Shrek. Not enough Puss in Boots and Donkey. Artie was hard to like. And "Revenge" stories are so single dimensional. When the 'villians/ bad guys' were attacking Far Far Away the movie felt dark.The biggest disappointment was the music. It sucked - big time! Honestly 'live and let die' at a funeral???? And what is it with singing frogs??? "Flushed Away" and "Meet the Robinsons" had singing frogs...Shrek had to add their own? Overall, my six year old enjoyed repeated watchings of it. I fell asleep. So thanks Dreamworks for finally alienating your paying audience and dumbing down the franchise to kids-only material. One vote off for that. Gone from 4/10 to 3/10.
__label__3 In all honesty Shrek is a kids movie, so they might love it, but the movie is a bomb for anyone over the age of fifteen. Personally the movie does not live up to the previous two. There was no conflict at all and the music was lame. Plus, the very few funny moments seem to surround the minor characters, Ginger bread man, Pinochio. Heck, even the shrek children were funnir than their parents. Even donkeys children were funnier and they did not speak. If you need to know anything else Shrek, the donkey, puss in boots are not funny in this movie. If you don't have a child, don't go to see this movie. It is not worth the ten dollars. Someone will eventually put the funny clips on you tube.
__label__3 (I labelled this 'Contains Spoilers' but I am not mentioning anything in particular. Someone might disagree so I figured safety first.) I grew up playing Warcraft II and III extensively. When I heard a Warcraft film was in the making I thought this to be a good thing. There was so much material to draw from. So I went to see it at my local Cineworld on the opening day (30 May here in the UK).Sadly the film does not deliver. With so many characters to keep track of and so little time for them all, I found that I didn't really care about the fates of any of them. It didn't help that two characters looked very similar and it was hard to tell them apart.Then there was the acting. Ye Gods. I imagine this might pick up a few Razzie nominations. One particular line was so woodenly delivered I thought I was watching the Phantom Menace.The plot was simple enough but because they were leapfrogging from character to character it didn't really have a chance to truly get interesting. For this film to do its characters justice it would need to have been six hours long.They should have stripped away maybe eight or nine of the 12 main characters and focused on them. Plot is character. Character is plot. This was drummed into me in university. If you want us to care about the characters then give us time to see them fail, win, live, love. With one a few to focus on you can then develop the plot. Throw some emotion in there. They want to go the serious route? Fine. Make it serious then. But give us things to care about. Show us some character depth. Don't just throw a bunch of characters and names at us, expecting us to be so 'wowed' (no pun intended) that we forget that we're really just watching a mediocre advert for World of Warcraft. Because that's what it felt like.Why am I being so critical of a film about orcs and humans? Why can't I just give it a 10 because I loved playing the games? Because I loved playing the games. See, when you really like something you want it to be as good as it can be when they do a film based on it later. Also, despite a few mediocre jokes the film wanted to go the 'serious' route. So I have to treat it seriously. And not go into 'fanboy mode' and give it a 10/10. Because this is not a 10/10 film.Maybe it's all the Marvel films' fault, going in with a huge amount of characters. Somehow they pull it off, though. Warcraft didn't. They say 'go big or go home' but in this case they should've started off with something smaller. There are enough fans for this to make a profit. I don't know if they should make a second one, though. Because if this first one is so bad but makes money, I don't think they'll learn from this mistake. They don't care about making a good Warcraft film. But that's the industry's problem in general and a debate for another day.
__label__3 I should start by explaining that I am not a fan of comic books, movies made from comic books, nor movies that have a comic book type story, with the utter and complete lack of plausibility in every single scene. I do like magical realism, and fantasy though. This movie had a few good elements. Some of the giants were cool, and the costumes were probably the best part of the movie. But, the movie was so overwrought, so chock full of hundreds of different elements, it would have been nearly impossible for even a top director to bring all of that together. It turned out to be a wish mash, a jumble of elements. Toward the last 45 minutes it was nearly entirely incoherent. I had no idea of who the players were, and it became a tangled mess. At the beginning of the film, I thought there were enough elements, to create a satisfying story. At the end of the film, my two friends and myself all looked at each other, and felt the same way.There were several occasions during the last hour that I was compelled to walk out. The only reason I stayed, is that I am currently overseas, in a location with few theaters, and few English films available.
__label__3 Here in Denmark, Warcraft had its premier today so obviously I flocked to the cinema to watch the movie. And the movie turned out to be exactly what I expected. The film looked and sounded wonderful (I'm already thinking Oscar nominations for visual effects, sound editing, and sound mixing), but the story was weak and the characters vanilla. The CGI, which I had feared, turned out to be pretty gosh darned good (especially in relation to the orcs). The acting department of the film was not anything unexpected with a few decent performances and otherwise plain and wooden acting that seemed to gloss over the otherwise dramatic and interesting situations that some of these characters were thrown into. The largest issue with this film however is the weak story, the unbelievable screenplay, and the fact that the movie relies on the audience having previous knowledge of the Warcraft lore (which I don't).Travis Fimmel, who I've only ever seen in Vikings, plays the human protagonist, Anduin Lothar, and does so decently. Now this is obviously not a groundbreaking or jaw dropping performance, but for a big action movie like Warcraft his acting was fairly good. Fimmel makes the character interesting, relatable, and easy-to-root-for, which is frankly more than anyone could have expected, so props to him. But Fimmel was by no means excellent; on several occasions when he had to deal with loss there seemed to be a weird and inhuman lack of emotion. Paula Patton plays the half-human and half-orc female protagonist, Garona Halforcen, who flip-flops from Horde to Alliance and vice versa. This character, just like Lothar, has a nice relatability and is easy for the viewer to get behind. Patton's performance is also pretty decent, but just like Fimmel, she had moments of uncomfortable stiffness and lack of emotion. I do think though, that in this case that could also be due to a screenplay that totally lacked any sense of believable dialogue. Ben Schnetzer also has a major role in this film as the mage, Khadgar, who accompanies Lothar for the majority of his journey. Although the character is cliché (I'll be saying that a lot), Schnetzer's decent wit and mildly sarcastic approach makes the character fairly compelling and interesting. The character's major moments however are ruined by unpleasing directing and weird dialogue, but Schnetzer did alright.Ben Foster also features in this film as the Guardian of Tirisfal, Medivh. Now I can honestly proclaim that I was lost for a large portion of his scenes which were something about mages and magic and 'fel', I think But all that aside, Foster did not help much himself. Foster's portrayal was awkward and inconsistent, sometimes he'd loudly speak to himself and sometimes he'd have a large unjustified outburst of emotion with no true reason behind it, but for the sake of the story. Dominic Cooper portrays the young and dashing King Llane Wrynn, who rules Azeroth. Cooper's character is awfully clichéd, but is wonderfully grounded and believable and seems to mend some of Foster's scenes. But ultimately the character fails to get the audience to back him and it seems truly outrageous that the same actor who made Howard Stark a likable character played such a dull character in such a big movie. Toby Kebell plays the noble yet awfully underused character of Durotan, the leader of the Frostwolf Clan (a clan of orcs). In the very beginning of the film, the character is seen with his very young son, and this helps make the character appeal to the audience. Although the character itself is interesting, and Kebell's acting is decent, the character is so underused and pushed aside for story lines and plots that fall incredibly short of Durotan's.Robert Kazinsky and Clancy Brown (Mr. Krabbs in Spongebob) play Orgrim Doomhammer, the reluctant follower and occasionally good friend of Durotan, and Blackhand, the aggressive war chief of the Horde, respectively. They both do decently in their roles and Kazinsky especially has nice chemistry with Kebell on screen. Daniel Wu is also thrown into the film as the classic evil manipulative magician-type character. Though the character itself is cliché and has no true backstory or anything (at least not in the film), Wu does play the role well and if it were not for IMDb, I would never have guessed that Wu had played that character. Ruth Negga and Anna Galvin also feature in the film as Lady Taria, Wrynn's wife, Lothar's brother, and queen of Azeroth, and Draka, Durotan's wife respectively. The two are really just shoehorned into the movie to make Wrynn and Durotan more relatable (I guess) and serve no purpose but to be wives, and although Draka especially gets a few moments to shine, she is– despite significant screen time– absolutely forgettable. Negga's acting in the film is depressingly and cringe-inducing wooden, while Galvin's was a little more believable, but was still to a certain degree weak due to the lack of emotion she put into the character. And finally– because I'm tired of writing about these dull character– Callum Keith Rennie plays Moroes, Medivh's assistant (maybe). The character is never really explained and although having a significant handful of scenes with Medivh I have no clue why he was in the film or what his relationship was with Medivh. But despite all that I can still point out the fact that Rennie's acting (like countless other's) was uncomfortably wooden and he seemed to put no effort whatsoever into making the dialogue believable.
__label__3 The story ended with T2, Cameron told all the story needed and moved on unlike fans of this sorry forced franchise and the three studios that each picked up the rights and made one contrived cash-grab after the next before passing it on one after the other like a dirty whore. This is the worst rehash of old ideas ever resold to a desperate fanbase. A baby-faced Sarah Connor who looks like she should be getting ready for a prom date unlike the hardened paramilitary character that Lind Hamilton trained like a madwoman to deliver in looks and performance. Some 8-ball headed actor trying to pass of John Connor, an Asian Robert Patrick doing all the same stuff we saw 20 years ago and an old age pensioner Arnorld Schwarzenegger being made to do everything in CGI his awful frame lost the ability to do decades ago. Only Hollywood would flog a dead horse so continuously and still find an audience however small and desperate, to watch and cheer every single swing of the lash.
__label__3 The first two Terminator films are among the best of their genre and are brilliant films also in their own right. Rise of the Machines started the series' decline and had its faults but also had some good things that made it better than its reputation, while Terminator Salvation although with its moments was even more disappointing. While not a complete disaster, the latest in the Terminator franchise is the worst yet and sees a once classic series at rock bottom.Are there any good points? Not many, but yes there are. The best thing about Terminator Genisys is Arnold Schwarzenegger, while more subdued than he can be he is rock-solid and has the most intensity and charisma of the entire cast. Despite not having a lot of screen time and being mute, Byung-hun Lee is nonetheless credible as T-1000. Some of the scenery is quite atmospheric and striking.Everything else was severely wanting. The rest of the cast are not good at all, with Jai Courtney being by far the worst actor for Kyle Reese of the series in a performance that is both insipid and annoying (which didn't entirely surprise me seeing as out of the little I've seen of him he's always struck me as a lazy actor with an arrogant ego). Just as much as the anaemic Emilia Clarke faring the worst of all the actresses playing Sarah Connor, who behaves in a way that you'd expect a stereotypical bratty and vapid high school teenager to act but not Sarah Connor. Jason Clarke is not quite as stiff as Christian Bale was in Terminator Salvation, but it is still a shock to see the role of John Connor being performed and written so blandly. The chemistry between them is also barely there, most of the time it's even non-existent. JK Simmons is basically wasted, and his dialogue and character are forced and out of place.The characters are like personality-less ciphers, with none of what made them so memorable before as characters and no convincing conflict, in a film that definitely could have benefited from less characters and more development (which is non-existent) . The script is overstuffed and confused, as well as tonally unbalanced with overly-complex scientific jargon, cheesy one-liners (even Schwarzenegger's don't work particularly well this time), misplaced comedy (that's even more distracting than in Rise of the Machines and used with even less subtlety) and too many ideas barely explored. The story, as well as having a stitched-together episodic feel, is at best a head-scratcher, with it being confused to being at times incoherent as a result of doing too little with too much. It's also very dull, not just because of the leaden pacing but because there is not much new and little interesting is done with the ideas presented in the film and it completely lacks atmosphere, thrills, mystery or suspense, and any drama is both heavy handed and lacking in heart.Direction from Alan Taylor is lazy, favouring spectacle over depth and story and character development. And unfortunately the spectacle is not that good. The special effects are not terrible, but they at best never rise above just-passable (the worst of the series in this regard, they are quite poor actually in the beginning section and fake-looking too in other parts), are used with little to no imagination, and there is too many of them (sometimes in places where they were not even needed). The action sequences are equally painfully unimaginative, are sloppily edited, are leadenly and predictability choreographed and contain no tension or thrills whatsoever, let alone any fun. It's very erratically shot and scored with a mix of overbearing bombast and dirge-like drone. The ending also felt incredibly forced and tacked on.Overall, Terminator Genisys was a pretty poor and disappointing film, and is by far the worst of the Terminator franchise. 3/10 Bethany Cox
