__label__6 Let me preface this by saying I am a huge James Cameron fan. I think "Terminator" is a masterpiece of sci-fi and the single best edited film of all time, "Aliens" is easily the best sequel not from the original director and I personally like it a lot more than the original. "Abyss" created an interesting world and was racked with tension, "Terminator 2" is an action tour-de-force and has what I believe the best sound editing/design of all time, "True Lies" is goofy fun, more poignant than most give it credit for with a boffo ending, and finally "Titanic" was far better than anyone expected it to be and has one of the most believable romances in a movie.So then there was the 12 year wait for "Avatar". No reviews, word of mouth, ticket price or natural disaster would keep me from the midnight IMAX 3D screening. I went with moderate expectations, which the film matched exactly. While this kept me from being disappointed it wasn't a good thing.Movie fans were on edge because if "Avatar" flops, it'll mean the death of creativity in a remake-happy Hollywood. That's a valid concern but the problem is nothing in "Avatar" is creative whatsoever. It is literally "Dances with Wolves" in space, right down to having a "Wind in his Hair" character as a foil to the "new guy".As the movie progressed it caused the worst of all bad reactions for me as a viewer - I started thinking about other things. Then I kept thinking "well the end battle is supposed to be awesome".SPOILER WARNING! (if for some reason you can't guess how this movie ends) End battle comes and the movie switches from being "Dances with Wolves" to Disney's "Atlantis" (but that's unfair since both of those movies contained far, FAR better musical scores) Gunship windows that were impervious to arrows a few scenes ago (to show Na'vi desperation) suddenly become brittle and break easily (to show Na'vi heroism). The battle isn't nearly as long as you'd expect, and nowhere near as epic / engaging as the finale of Return of the King. Finally there's a Robo-suit vs Navi fight and it is admittedly pretty good. Unlike 95% of directors these days Cameron knows enough to pull the camera back and let us SEE the fight. However it's an odd choice to spend millions on 10 foot tall "creatures" and then rarely even have them in the same frame as humans.And of course there's the obligatory scene where characters are dying in slow motion as Middle Eastern vocal music plays (see Gladiator or Munich) Wouldn't have been so bad if I hadn't said to my friend on the way there "How much you wanna bet there's a part where characters die in slow motion over Middle Eastern music?"As with most movies these days "Avatar" is far too long, glossing over important details (why is Earth dying, what does Unobtainium do, etc) and instead spending time on flight scenes, mystic ceremonies, spirit trees and nature bonding.Ultimately I just did not care. Since the dawn of cinema Hollywood recycles old ideas every few decades and slaps on a bigger budget / new stars / better effects so you won't notice. I can see re-doing "Ben Hur" with color and sound, but why do we need "Dances with Wolves" with 20 times the budget and blue Native Americans? No amount of impressive visuals, robo-suits, gunship battles, perfect character CGI or Sigorney Weaver can change the fact that I've seen this movie 100 times before. I could even accept the weak story if there were any characters to give a rat's ass about. This film is also dreadfully humorless, a stark contrast to "Titanic" where humor was one of its many surprises.Regarding 3D... I've seen many films in it now and honestly you don't even notice after the few minutes. It doesn't make the money any better or worse, just more expensive.Citizen Kane, The Robe, Sound of Music, Jaws, Star Wars, Batman, Toy Story, The Matrix... these movies changed movies. We can say that looking back now. "Avatar" saying it would ahead of time is pure hubris, "unsinkable Titanic"-like poppycock.But if expensive motion-capture being used to cover up a weak, generic story is the future of cinema then count me out, I'll stick with my PS3.
__label__6 First of all, let me get it out of the way: yes, Avatar is visually stunning. With better scenario and dialogs, it could have been a very good movie; alas, it was completely predictable, and fancy special effects alone do not make a good movie.Let's start with the picture. As I said before, the special effects and computer animation are really good; the textures feel very real, and the degrees of liberty that CGI animation allows in terms of camera angles and movement is well used for dramatic effects. The luxurious vegetation of the forest and the CGI-animated wild animals are a treat to the eyes. In terms of artwork, there is a definite influence from Nausicaa (the forest-world, the spores) and Starcraft (the vessels, the goliaths). I saw the movie in an IMAX movie with 3D glasses, but I am not convinced that they used the full potential of it - quite honestly, the Haribo commercial before the movie made a better use of it. I find it more strenuous to watch a movie with the 3D-glasses - some details are blurry, and it feels likewise when the camera makes swift lateral movements.Now, the scenario - the movie disappoints in that area. The plot is very Manichean, and it feels like a remake of Pocahontas, interspersed with elements from / tributes to Star Wars (Pandora and the Na'vi look like Endor and the Ewoks respectively), Nausicaa (the forest as an entity, the destructive impact of civilization on nature, the spores in the forest), Starcraft (Colonel Quarritch and Dr Augustine bear some resemblance with Arcturus Mensk and Sarah Kerrigan), Matrix (the concept of controlling another image of self), and maybe even Independence Day (the pilot fighter suicide) and the Lion King (the father's death, "go, and never come back!", ... am I going to far here?). But I can honestly say that I haven't been surprised at any point in the movie. You know from the beginning that he will be accepted by the Na'vi, that he will fall in love, that he will defect, that he will ultimately prevail after suffering some heavy casualties, and that he will find a way to permanently transfer his mind into the body of his avatar.It would have been interesting if the movie had dealt in more depth with the issues related to transferring one's mind into another body for instance, maybe a la Twelve Monkeys Army, where the "hero" is clearly deeply affected by experiences that the mind is not used to deal with (time travel in that case, but it is not that different from what we have here). Likewise, the love interest of our hero seems very indifferent to the fact that he really is a human remotely controlling a human - Na'vi bastard. I was expecting someone (him, her, or even one of the other humans in the scientific group) to show at least some kind of surprise / doubt when these feelings emerge. I was expecting more complexity in the social interactions of the characters, and their personality.I also take issues with some big stereotypes: corporations and the white men are greedy, indigenous people are pure, brave, and connected to the earth, but dumb - thankfully there is a human to teach them how to fight those who come from the sky. To some extent, the movie feels like a remake of the colonization of the Americas; just replace the Na'vis by native Americans, the aircrafts by ships, and modern weapons by muskets, and you have it. Except of course the colonization of the Americas did not have such a happy ending for the native tribes.On the whole, the movie is beautiful, but it feels like the main goal was to showcase fancy special effects. The movie would have benefited from more detailed characters, and a less linear and predictable plot. My rating is 6/10.
__label__6 "Avatar" is not the next "Star Wars" or "Lord of the Rings." It might be the next "Matrix," though. Or, perhaps more accurate, the next "Matrix Revolutions." It's technically groundbreaking craftmanship put to work on a story that was played out after "Return of the King." There are a lot of bad guys, a lot of good guys, and sooner or later they're all gonna meet on the battlefield. The little details are not-so-shockingly unimportant, since nothing could stop, change or even, really, comment on the unstoppable trajectory of this film's story.It's the future. An Evil Corporation is parked on distant planet Pandora, mining the planet of all its precious minerals. The native population, big blue humanoids called the "Na'vi," aren't too happy about this. The corporation has hired scientists to create avatars of Na'vi bodies to be controlled by human brains, in order to communicate to the Na'vi that...they better move, lest be bulldozed by the evil Col. Qautrich (Stephen Lang).Jake Sully (Sam Worthington) is flown in to Pandora because his twin brother, who had an Avatar made specifically for him, is dead. The coincidence is an obvious plot device so that we can have a newcomer to Pandora to share in our amazement. Oh, and he's paralyzed, so running around in his new alien body is rather freeing for him.I don't feel as if I need to continue with the plot description. You know what'll happen. You've seen "Dances with Wolves" and "The Last Samurai." Heck, even "Dead Man." The Na'vi represent nature, the (all-American) corporation represents destructive technology. Quatrich has a Southern accent and says things like, "we have to fight terror with terror." The Na'vi are clones of Native Americans - filtered through the imagination of a white liberal. It's all very obvious.The question, of course, is whether or not it's entertaining. Well...sometimes. It certainly looks good. Some sequences - especially those with the winged beasts - are eye-popping. Lang makes a fun villain. Pandora is more derivative than original, it reminded me most of Skull Island in Peter Jackson's King Kong. All the monsters have a plastic-y look to them that make them feel too well-done. The 3D is distracting at times and I had a headache before the movie was over.But there are scenes and individual shots that pop with ethereal beauty. It's worth seeing for that reason, but I don't think it'll be as fun after multiple viewings. The great thing about "Star Wars" was the characters: Han Solo, Luke Skywalker, Princess Leia, R2-D2, Darth Vader, Obi-Wan Kenobi, Yoda and so on. They embodied the other-worldliness of the story, taking the weight off the effects.In thirty-two years, I don't think anyone will remember "Jake Sully." 6/10
__label__6 Yeah this movie took several steps forward in terms of cinematography and filming technology, but that is all that can really be said to be what makes this film worth seeing. Everything else that makes a film great is totally lack luster.There is no deep character development. Why does Jake Sully really want to become a part of the Navi? What was life on Earth like? What really makes him want to break away from his roots there? Is it just the ability to walk? I mean are there no more Native Americans or Buddhists left on Earth (which is clearly who the Navi were based off of) to give him that spiritual satisfaction? How does he feel about filling his brother's shoes? Twin relationship? The conflict between scientists and the military is not developed. Every supporting character was a stock character. Michelle Rodriguez somehow manages to have a place in Hollywood after literally playing the same type of character in every film she is in (Fast and the Furious, SWAT, Blue Crush...yeah just put her in a futuristic helicopter and thats her in this one). Was Sigourney Weaver supposed to be a mother figure? How did the bad guy from the Last of the Mohicans feel about faking a Native American language? The plot was totally predictable, and the dialogue was crap. It was like James Cameron turned in his dialogue assignment a day late.This movie deserves no award nominations at all outside of those in technical categories.
__label__6 Whether you like Daniel Craig as Bond or not, you can't deny he has been an integral part of the series' highest points. Casino Royale is one of the greatest action thrillers ever, let alone Bond movie, and Skyfall is right up there with Goldeneye as a quintessential Bond adventure. Following the magnificent Skyfall, Spectre had some huge shoes to fill, and for the most part, it delivers exactly what you'd expect. An attention-grabbing, tense opening fight scene, a lovely title sequence (whether the song is good is debatable), and an elaborate sinister plot surrounding James Bond that puts him up against his inner demons more than ever. Does it surpass Casino Royale or Skyfall? Definitely not, but as far as reintroducing the villainous organization SPECTRE into Bond canon after 40+ years, the film does more than a serviceable job, giving us a stylish action-adventure to boot.SPECTRE is revealed to have been affiliated with some of Bond's biggest threats - Mr. White, Le Chiffre, Raoul Silva - all under the control of one puppeteer, the head of SPECTRE and James' archnemesis, Ernst Stavro Blofeld. It isn't much of a spoiler, as speculation was rampant ever since the first trailer (and hell, when the name of the movie was released). What's important is its execution, and Spectre leaves breadcrumbs for you to follow all the way through the belly of the beast. Not only is Bond under SPECTRE's crosshairs, but MI6 itself is experiencing a merger led by Max Denbeigh (Andrew Scott) who wants to eliminate the 00 division and focus solely on global intelligence. It's apparent early on that Blofeld has eyes everywhere, and while he works primarily in the shadows (Christoph Waltz only having 20 or so minutes of screen time), he poses a looming threat to Bond because of his sheer cunning and a past secret that unravels itself when the two finally meet.Many parts of the film feel like a throwback to classic Bond. The icy environments, the car chase and gadgetry, the use of a massive threatening henchman, a train fight that is heavily reminiscent of From Russia With Love, and of course the modern birthing of Bond's greatest adversary. The acting all around is fantastic, with Craig continuing to impress as the suave womanizing secret agent. Thomas Newman turns in another wonderful musical score. But perhaps the most impressive feature is Sam Mendes' directing. The shots in this movie are absolutely gorgeous - the action scenes are incredible to watch and easy to follow, the landscapes are fresh and vibrant, and even the simplest of scenes - Bond and Blofeld walking up to each other for the first time - are quietly introspective yet palpably tense. Tension lingers throughout every moment of Spectre even when not much is happening, and the suspense is high enough to hold your interest for the full 2-and-a-half hours.Spectre is not perfect. Much of what happens narratively is predictable, a few lines don't go over too well in context, and you eventually find something out about Blofeld that is pretty ridiculous taking previous Bond canon into account. Also, given Waltz's reputation for knocking villainous roles out of the park, he's noticeably underused here. But these flaws don't tarnish the pure entertainment value to be had. What you want in a James Bond movie is over-the-top action surrounding the world's greatest spy who's up against unbeatable odds yet still comes out on top thanks to his charisma and general badassery, and this is precisely what Spectre delivers. Daniel Craig may or may not return as Bond, and if he doesn't, this movie serves as a perfect send-off. But as the series constantly reminds us, "James Bond will return...," and Spectre is just another welcome chapter in the immense story of everybody's favorite super spy.
__label__6 I came out with slight disappointment after watching DKR for I had huge expectations from Nolan after an exceptional TDK.I am huge fan of first two installment of Batman Trilogy and I liked DKR. It's a good movie but it could have been much better. So rather than discussing its merit, which are many, I am pointing out its shortcomings.It's the weaker than other movies of trilogy and simple reason being it lacks strong characters. DKR is all about storytelling – just like Nolan's Inception but not as efficient. And in doing so it fails where Batman Begins and The Dark Knight had succeeded.Batman Begins was all about fear, doubt, self-realization and redemption where Bruce Wayne discovers his destiny as Batman. BB had a story arc which set background for main characters – Batman/ Wayne, Ra's al Ghul, Gordon (to some extent) and most importantly Gothom City and hence set stage for a fitting climax.The Dark Knight explores the theme of chaos, morality and belief effortlessly and establishes characters of Joker, Harvey Dent/Two Face, Rachel etc. so effortlessly that people choose to ignore even some major plot holes. Heath Ledger's interpretation of Joker was so mesmerizing that it single handily carried TDK to path of greatness/ critical acclaim.But Dark Knight Rises is all about story telling – efficient but not exceptional. Bane, Miranda Tate, John Blake, Peter Folly (Deputy Commissioner), Selina Kyle – characters are introduced but never explored/ expanded - they just start working on their part - just like cogs in the wheel. They are not so much part of the story itself but just the agents which move the story forward.Bane's character is dull and single dimensional and do not evoke any fear or awe. He's meticulous, intelligent and strong and this is established quickly in movie but after that he slumps into a just another movie villain. Taila / Miranda character is never fully explored. Even Wayne/Batman is devoid of any emotions in this one and he feels so sure of himself that I start wondering if it's the same Batman that I saw in first two installments. Only new character which had some shades was that of Selina Kyle and Anne Hathaway did justice to it. Add to that helplessness of Alfred portrayed superbly by Caine. Other actors are good but there's not much for them to do.There's no dilemma,doubt, love, choices, moral battles, hope, even no chaos/fear- things which make characters and plot interesting ( at least for me) and which made Batman Begins and The Dark Knight really good movies. Even the theme of "Occupy Wallstreet" is very weak and at best it's closer to London riots with its loot and arsoning. There's even perfect order in Bane's revolution. Movie moves effortlessly from one plot to another and to climax that it become at times predictable.But maybe Dark Knight Rises was supposed to be like that only and Nolan had too much to deal with in 2.5 hours. And maybe that's the main problem with DKR – too much is going on in the story that it seems crammed at times. And when there are too many characters and so many story arcs and it's tough to do justice to characters and story telling at the same time. And this is when you start looking for plot holes, slackness, predictability et al.-----------------some spoilers----------------------- Such as Bane's plan –cement/explosive, Wayne- Miranda's romance, Blake guessing Wayne's personality, Miranda-Talia twist, Batman doing Angels & Demons stunt,Batman's escape from death, Blake as Robin (LOL) and Alfred in last scene.------------------spoilers end -------------------------All movies have a style which depends on story and its story teller. And there' no point of comparing different styles, say that of Starwars, Godfather, Transformers or story tellers say Tarantino, Cameron etc. Whatever maybe the style, good movies play to its strengths – story/screenplay, characters, style, pace or all. Try to recall some good movies and think what you like the most.Dark Knight Rises have a good story but lacks strong characters and relies Inception's style which incidentally differs from style of first two installments of Batman Trilogy. And for me, soul of Nolan's Batman Series is its strong characters, their underlying emotions and a theme which is much deeper and meaningful than all fight, gadgetry and style. And this is where DKR fails. 7/10
__label__6 I enjoyed Spider-Man 3 quite a lot. However, there were so many problems with it that I ended up only "liking" it instead of loving it like the first two films.Let me get to the pros vs the cons:THE GOODThe Effects: Birth of Sandman is the coolest effect on any film I can remember. Amazing! The fight scenes were also incredibly well realized. The Humor: J.Jonah.Jameson had some hilarious moments - especially his first scene. Bruce Campbell plays a waiter (Maitre D really) in a French restaurant, and it is probably the best scene in the whole movie! Peter dancing! The Action: The first Sandman vs Spidey scene was very exciting. Maybe the best battle sequence from all three films. CGI-Venom looked great in the whole four-minutes of screen time he got. All the fight-scenes were EXCELLENT, well choreographed and exciting.The Acting: James Franco has improved much as Harry. Gwen Stacey was much better used than I expected. (And she was beautiful!) Thomas Haden Church was perfect for Sandman! Topher Grace did a fine job as Brock, not so great as Venom.I guess that is a good intro for...THE BADVenom has WAY too little screen time. His story was too rushed. Sandman is made to look like a good guy, then bad, and at some points we're not sure what to think. Do we feel sorry for him? Fear him? The filmmakers couldn't decide, and it shows. The Costumes: Harry's mask was just ridiculous! Seeing Brock's face in the Venom suit looked stupid. And the Dark Spidey suit wasn't "alive" enough. It just looked like a suit, not a living organism. The Score (music): Some parts were OK but some parts were SO bad it ruined the scene! An example is the over-scoring of the first Dark-Spidey scene (where he's hanging upside down looking at himself in a building window). It was painfully bad, screaming out for the audience to be amazed. Like holding up an applause sign. Tacky. Then there were plenty of similar moments, mostly in other action scenes. American Cheese: Spidey landing in front of a HUGE, randomly placed, waving American flag. The camera panning back from a crying MJ and Peter atop a huge building, to make sure we see a sunset in the background, etc. Manipulative tripe. The evil-dudes team-up in the end was very contrived. I didn't buy it. How Spidey deals with Sandman in the end was also quite silly. Not cool at all.The biggest problem is trying to squeeze too much into one film. Spider-Man 3 should have been about Sandman and Harry/Goblin. Venom should have been held back for the next one. The fourth film could have been all about Venom, giving him more screen time and the treatment he deserves.I know this was Sam Raimi's original plan (not to include Venom in this film) but Avi Arad convinced him to add Venom into the story, for the fans, since everybody loves Venom.Too bad Sam didn't follow his plan. I doubt he'll come back for more now. Let's just hope he gets to make The Hobbit (unless by some miracle Peter Jackson gets to do it after all).Thanks for reading! :)
__label__6 My feelings after watching the third film are somewhere in the neighborhood of satisfied, but that feeling is fairly disappointing. Satisfied more or less means adequate and to follow a sequel that I consider excellent with a film that's only adequate is a certainly a step down. Positively, Spider-Man 3 does reasonably well at maintaining a feeling similar to that of the first two films. I never felt like I wasn't seeing the same world or characters and that's important to me. Continuity in tone really helps hold a series together. The Matrix Reloaded never felt to me like I was witnessing the continuation of the story and world presented in the first installment. The scenery and characters felt like weak and dull recreations and that really bugged me. The New-York of Spider-Man 3 is about the same as before, as is Peter's apartment, The Daily Bugle offices, etc. Peter, Harry, Mary Jane, Aunt May, etc. also carry over well and it's easy to jump back into their lives. Where it doesn't feel like its predecessors is in its pacing and scope. The film tries to tell a lot of story for one film, much more than either the previous installments. This makes it messy. If you took Spider-Man 1 and 2's stories, wove them together and compressed them into one 2 hour film, you'd have a mess pretty similar to Spider-Man 3. A lot of this has to do with poor exposition and the decision to include three villains. In good exposition, events lead to other events and it all seems to flow naturally. Some films end up feeling like a story wasn't really even written, but instead a series of well-crafted scenes that don't necessarily fit well together. A bunch of smaller scenes are then written to connect those scenes. These scenes can feel very forced because they often rely heavily on coincidence. The Matrix Reloaded is full of these contrived scenes and so is Spider-Man 3. They're frustrating because they act like speed bumps where the plot suddenly feels awkward and my enjoyment of the film drops. One scene sticks out particularly in Spider-Man 3 as too awkward. Venom, one of the super-villains, is swinging through alleyways when he is ambushed by the Sandman, another villain. Venom proposes they team to get Spider-Man together, Sandman agrees, end scene. This scene is needed to set up the final, huge battle of the film but just seems poorly worked in. For one it's very short, and two the characters don't know each other and have completely different motives for being villains. That the two would decide that quickly to become partners after coincidentally running into each other is just sloppy to watch.Despite how it seems, I didn't hate the film. I was just disappointed in its flow as a narrative and thought it aimed much higher than it should have in terms of what to include plot wise. Regardless though, many scenes were very enjoyable to watch and I don't just mean action scenes. The Daily Bugle scenes, as always, were great and funny. The addition of Topher Grace as Peter's photographer rival, Eddie Brock, was great casting. His line delivery works perfectly with his character's sleazy personality and his scenes with Peter are some of the best. The character Harry Osborne returns and becomes one of the film's three villains: a new Green Goblin that takes over where the Goblin of the first film left off. Harry and Peter's relationship is probably the most interesting part of the story. Their struggle between being friends and enemies makes for some tense moments. One of my favorite scenes in the film is a verbal confrontation in a diner between Peter and Harry. Playing off Peter's presumption that he and Harry are back on good terms, Harry orchestrates a bit of nasty drama that sticks a knife in Pete's love life. He has Peter meet him in a diner just to drive the knife in a little further. As Pete storms out, Harry is awash in sadistic joy with himself before making a fast and creepy exit. Harry is really the best handled villain of the film. Not only as the Green Goblin Jr. fighting Spider-Man in the sky much the way his father did, but as Harry, Peter's estranged friend, using their friendship as a pretty sharp weapon against him. The villain I could have done without was the Sandman. His character was interesting but his place in the film as a main character seemed unnecessary and forced. He's an escaped convict running from the police who accidentally falls into a big science experiment and becomes the Sandman. He is also apparently the actual killer of Peter's uncle Ben thus giving Peter motivation to go after him. This reworking of the first film's story seems very far fetched and unnecessary. The computer effects used to create Sandman are terrific as is the performance by Thomas Hayden-Church, but I think the film would have improved without him. More time could then have been given to the conflicts with Harry and Eddie and likewise Goblin and Venom. Venom is particularly nice because he's the only villain not the product of some crazy experiment gone wrong. His creation is almost entirely Peter's fault. Venom acts as a slimy toothy grinning anti-Spider-Man, who hates Spider-Man on a personal level after Eddie Brock loses his job and girlfriend and holds Peter responsible. Two villains definitely would've been enough for one film, especially two villains that feel wronged by Peter personally, not just Peter as Spider-Man. I don't really want them to continue this series, but since it seems like they may anyway, I hope some lesson is learned with number three that less really can be more. If the time that was spent awkwardly packing too many stories into one film was instead spent working on one good story so that it flowed naturally, Spider-Man 3 could have excelled the way number two did.
__label__6 Add my voice to those underwhelmed by the latest edition of the Spiderman franchise. While it does contain some of the best action sequences I've ever seen, it is far from the best film ever made.The problem with the film is that there is simply too much going on. First off you have the Peter/MJ relationship bumping along, add to that the Peter/Harry story line still playing out, plus we have the addition of the Sandman story and coming in in the final half hour is the addition of Venom. Its too much for the movie to handle, the result of which it all feels half baked. Very few of the characters get the proper amount of time to develop with the worst offender is Eddie Brock and Venom who get zero and so seem to belong in another movie (Venom looks great which makes his under use seem even worse). The real proof the film has too much going on was that there are a couple of times where the plot is moved along by sudden out of left field revelations. The only one I"ll reveal, because its in the trailer, is that Sandman killed Uncle Ben in the first film. Had the film been better plotted the revelation wouldn't have been necessary, nor would any of the others. There are some bright spots, the majority of the Sandman material is sterling, with the first appearance of Sandman in the sand pit almost perfect, and the sequence that makes up his first battle with Spidey one of the greatest things I've ever seen put on film. The Sandman sequences alone make it worth slogging through the ups and downs of the rest of the movie.Is it a bad movie? No, just a disappointing one. Its clear that this could have and should have been the best in the series (and maybe the best film of the year) had all of the right pieces been put in place, indeed the final sequences in the film probably would have reduced most audiences to tears had they gotten the rest of the film right.As I said the film is worth seeing at some point, just don't feel the need to run out with everyone else. Was it worth fighting the crowds the first weekend to see? Not really, but it is worth seeing. Hopefully they'll take a break before they make the next one, maybe they'll make the one that this movie should have been
__label__6 Spoiler free review. Let me first start of by saying that I am not a Marvel ''fanboy'' or a DC nerd. The comic book genre of films have made it to my personal top 3 favourite genres in the last decade and the MCU has been a strong contributor to that rise. I hold the first Ironman, first Avengers and Captain America 1+2 in high regard. I did not like the direction they took with Iron Man 3 (more on this below) or Guardians of the Galaxy but Winter Soldier was a gem in terms of balancing solid action, drama and levity.That being said, my initial thoughts on Age of Ultron (AoU) are quite negative. To me, its essentially a carbon copy of IM3. There are problems which strike you repeatedly as you progress throughout the film. The 2 biggest complaints I have with AoU is 1) the tone (comedy) 2) the script/writing.So starting with the tone. I like to laugh as I'm sure most people do, but there is a time and place to exhibit your comedy writing skills in an action film. In AoU, its a constant, recurring and predictable theme. It's not limited to one character either, everyone is popping one liner jokes as if its the Expendables and yes, most are not funny. The timing of these moments of levity are horrible too, desensitising the viewer to any impending fear of death in battle. If the characters seem so relaxed in not worrying about possibly dying, then what suspense is needed to be held by the audience? This plagued IM3 in a bad way and its arguably worse here. The comic book films which achieved great success in this regard were XMen DOFP, The Avengers 1, Cap 2 even Dark Knight Rises! Can you imagine at the climax of Xmen DOFP if old Magneto and Storm and Bishop start pulling one liner jokes as the army of sentinels came charging at them? It would kill any tension! 2) The script. I won't say too much since this is a spoiler free review, but it really feels rushed and unorganised. I watched Fast 7 around 2 weeks before AoU and I got similar vibes. Again, its not the fact that the film is 2.5 hours long or has too many characters, that isn't am excuse since The Dark Knight and Xmen DOFP shows how to navigate these theatrical obstacles. There are a few completely unnecessary subplots in AoU and useless characters which do not impact the story overall. The villain himself, Ultron is another massive let-down in Marvels already growing catalogue of mishandled villains.So as a summary, if you want mindless action and cool CGI, which this film does offer in the form of some spectacular visual fight scenes then you will like AoU. If you are after a darker, grounded and more moving story like the trailers promised, you will be severely disappointed. Final score 6/10 and I am being kind since Cap is my fav Avenger and they finally gave him some good screen time.
__label__6 In 2012, there came a day unlike any other day where the worlds greatest heroes were united against a common threat and THE AVENGERS blew away audiences of all ages with the first ever comic book movie crossover. In 2015, there came another day unlike any other day and this time the world is threatened by a Ultron, the cynical critical atypical child of Skynet and Megatron...... No actually he's just a wisecracking artificial intelligence with delusions of godhood and all round evil. Turning on his creators, he threatens all life on earth with his sidekicks "illusion- woman" and "not-the-flash"....I mean, Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver, and it is up to the Avengers to take him out before he can usher in THE AGE OF ULTRON. Instead of the robot dominated dystopian future that we saw in the comics, what we do get is more "the next few days of Ultron". No matter, it is an exciting few days with director Joss Whedon balancing the intercharacter dynamics with awesome action pieces from claustrophobic close combat, to a freeway chase, to the much advertised no holds barred beat down between the Hulk and iron man's new "hulk buster" Armour. All this is supplemented with beautiful special effects from Industrial Lights and Magic ILM. Flawless work befitting the movie's massive Budget.In The villain, Ultron, the Writers have crafted a memorable though under utilised bad guy. Ultron could have been the vehicle to explore deeper themes, themes that were merely hinted at but never fleshed out. Instead, His cynical yet refined snarling courtesy of James Spader reminds me of the those magnificently passionate Super villains that were so common in Saturday morning cartoons of old.And that is exactly what this is. AGE OF ULTRON can be described as a true live action cartoon. The dialogue is light hearted, the story is straightforward, the tone is fun and the action is immense. And this is not exactly a good thing. Intense scenes are interrupted and spoilt with poorly placed humour and once again the story does not seem to take itself seriously. Fights are over-choreographed, more like some fancy ballet than an all out battle. The fact that it cuts to graceful slow motion once in a while only emphasises the dance like nature of the fights. And yet the movie felt like pieces of it were cut out. The narrative does not flow as smoothly as the first with inexplicable scenes like Thor suddenly going off on his hallucination trip. Much of the premise and the characters development up to this point very much depends on the viewer watching prior marvel movies. It is here that Marvel studio's continuity heavy Creative direction rears its ugly head. To know what is going on in this movie, one would have to watch the previous movies. Captain America the winter soldier, iron man 3, the first avengers movie. But perhaps that's the point? Force people to go buy the Blu rays or the video to rewatch and get up to speed. In the end, the real big winner is distributor Disney. Ka-Ching $$.I like a good comedy. In in a big action blockbuster, I like to believe that the stakes are real, that the dangers faced by our heroes are real, that they are really fighting for the fate of the world. Instead, we get this cartoony violence, with equally cartoony superficial story, where heroes joke around with quick lighthearted quips in the middle of a fight scene where people could die. This kills tension. And if it weren't for the magnificent effects, action and direction, AGE OF ULTRON would have scored a bit lower.
__label__6 The Avengers: Age of Ultron is one of the best movie I've ever watched(not biased). I am a Marvel fan that also like DC movies and series, but in my opinion I think DC makes good TV series on small screens however I think Marvel makes great movies on big screens. The Avengers: Age of Ultron is the best superhero film in my opinion because of the huge surprises in the movie and the incredibly thrilling storyline from the comics, the directors of the movie did change the storyline a bit though, it's not like a copy and paste storyline from the comic book. Therefore, this is the best superhero film of all time in my opinion.
__label__6 This film has possibly the worst ending of any HP film, and wandered the furthest from the books. If you are a fan of the books, this is for you: Remember that cool battle at Hogwart's at the end of the book? It's not here. None of it.Remember the important plot setup with the tiara? Not here.Remember all the background and memories about Tom Riddle? Not here.Remember Bill Weasley? Not here.Remember Bill getting wounded by a certain werewolf? Not here.Remember Fleur? Not here.Remember Snape's important parting words to Harry? Not here.Remember the funeral? Not here.Remember the touching conversation Harry had with Ginny at the end? Not here.Remember Scrimgeour? Not here.Remember the Burrow burning down? No? Oh, because that IS here.In short, this film is great if all you took out of the book was the romance and funny bits. If you're more invested in the bigger story, you'll be disappointed.
__label__6 I'll keep this short and bittersweet. While not without its merits, the sixth film in the HP series was very much a let-down for me.First of all, I'm a die-hard fan of the books, but I absolutely didn't want or expect the movie to follow the book page-for-page. In fact, some of the creative liberty taken in the film was quite good. One scene in particular was very good, where Bellatrix and Fenrir Greyback attack the burrow, leading to a showdown in the marsh between Harry, Ginny and the two Death Eaters. Or at least it had the potential to be very good. In fact, much of the movie was very anticlimactic. That scene, among many other crucial scenes, fizzles out when nothing happens. There is a short duel, and then the DE's leave. The same thing happens in the end of the movie, which was the biggest let-down of all the films so far. The battle through Hogwarts at the end of the book was the big climax, leading up to Dumbledore's death. In the film, the whole battle is cut out, replaced instead by a very short and mawkish scene in which Snape gives a quick Avada Kedavra, and then everyone goes on their way.In short, the lack of appropriate emotional content and the lack of any real climax anywhere throughout the film just makes the whole thing a bit lackluster. Bringing David Yates back into the picture was clearly a costly mistake.
__label__6 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince flat out sucks! It has very little redeeming factors to it, its too long and its boring. I will never understand how the filmmakers turned what was actually an okay book into a film this boring. I read the Half-Blood Prince book, and I actually liked it. I liked the dark turn the books had taken (before f*****g it up with the Deathly Hallows), and the death of Dumbledore was actually dramatic and actually elicited an emotional response from me. It wasn't a great book, I felt that the plot delved a bit too deep into the relationships amongst the characters (or was that the Order of the Phoenix? Either way it slowed things down), and I also didn't really find the book that exciting until the ending, that is where things got good. The movie, on the other hand, was the complete opposite. Things did not get good towards the end, if anything, it got worse! The Half-Blood Prince is what happens when a book that had so much background to it that when turned into a film, the filmmakers need to keep things moving while still telling a good story and have it exciting. This movie didn't do that at all. It was boring, from beginning to end, nothing but boring, dreadfully slow scenes that nearly put me to sleep. Not only that, but the many scenes regarding the relationships were so bad that I didn't feel that the characters didn't actually like each other, the only reason they do is because the plot requires them too. For example: Ginny Weasley is supposedly going to be Harry Potter's girlfriend, but her character is so bland and the actress didn't really do a good enough job to make it look like she actually did like Harry. She stares at him with an uninterested look in her eyes, one that says to me, "Why does the script require me to fall for this guy?" Its painful to watch, and only serves to kill 5 minutes.The rest of the cast is hit-or-miss. Alan Rickman as Severus Snape, as always, is brilliant. He is the one cool character and I don't think it is because he is well written. It's because it's Alan Rickman! He is always fun to watch on screen! Whether it is Galaxy Quest, or...any of the other Harry Potter films, Alan Rickman always does a great job. However the rest of the cast is nothing spectacular. I already mentioned how bland Ginny Weasley is so I won't talk about her again, but everyone in this movie just doesn't work. Helena Bonham Carter as Bellatrix Lestrange is so over the top that she comes off as hilarious! I know she is meant to be psychotic and all that good stuff, but...look at her! Her character isn't subtle at all! She cackles and laughs manically whenever she is on screen and I found her more annoying and funny rather than frightening. The cast of this movie may have good actors/actresses lined up, but it's ultimately the characters that fall flat. They either are completely useless, or so obviously evil that whenever someone thinks they are not one of the death eaters I feel like shaking them relentlessly shouting, "HELLO! HOW STUPID ARE YOU!? Look at this guy! He has no nose, no hair, no visible human traits aside from the fact he looks somewhat human!" In case you didn't know, I was talking about the evil lord snake-face, I mean, Voldemort.Onto the plot, and trust me, this is where I REALLY started to loathe this film. It does so much yet succeeds at doing nothing at all. I watched this movie in a trance, trying to remember what happened and why. After some time I eventually just gave up, mainly because when I asked myself, "Why," I realized that there was no reason why. Nothing happens in this movie! It was so boring that I almost couldn't believe it. What are they doing now? Oh, absolutely nothing. What now? Oh, they are trying to find this item for reasons I forgot about and didn't really care about in the first place. Why is this drink that Dumbledore is drinking making him progressively weaker? Why are there zombie-like creatures rising up from the water? What is going on? What are those things, why should I care? The answer to the last question is I shouldn't. Only hardcore Potter fans will truly know what is going on, the rest of us is left confused, or was that just me? What's going on now? Oh, the death eaters have invaded Hogwarts, oh no! That should be dramatic, but it really isn't. What just happened, oh wait, Draco Malfoy couldn't grow a pair and kill Dumbledore, he just stood there crying like a little b**** until the only cool character had to do the deed himself. This was the worst insult of all, Dumbledoofus' death wasn't dramatic, period. It happened, was incredibly boring, and went, and that was it.This is a movie that I just love to hate. I take great joy in ripping this movie to shreds because I feel that I must have revenge. Revenge against having a series of once okay books turned into movies that started off well, then turned to c***. It pains me to see a franchise that I actually once liked (contrary to my review of the Deathly Hallows Part 1 movie) be turned into this. The problem is that while I did like the franchise initially, it's the awful conclusion and the awful recent movies that turned me against Harry Potter. I wanted to like this movie, I really did, but, sadly, the movie failed. Harry Potter, I hate to say this, but you failed!
__label__6 Sadly, a step down from Man of Steel. First of all, I was a bit skeptical about this movie, and thought the runtime (about 2 and a half hours) was way too long (and I wasn't completely wrong though). The action scenes were better than what we saw in the trailer. Although the doomsday scenes had terrible CGI (you'll know it when you'll see it), but overall I was happy. The movie had a lot crazy-packed action (it was directed by Zack Snyder, what do ya expect?) but the plot didn't know where it was going. A lot of scenes were a treat for me to see and I got goosebumps watching them. There was more to Jesse Eisenberg than what I saw (and hated, like most people) in the trailer. I made a bet to my friend that he'll suck in the movie, guess I'll have to pay up. He really WAS good. But just like any other movie, it's not perfect and has flaws. You can see that Zack tried hard very hard to fit everything nicely into the movie, but over stuffing was bound to happen. Other than that, I think there are some fan-boys who'll be satisfied no matter how bad the movie is. Hope my review didn't give away any spoilers in any way whatsoever, and that you end up enjoying the movie as much as (or more than) I did.
__label__6 I saw the original "Superman: The Movie" when it was released in theaters. It was an epic event. It would be unfair to expect the same from "Superman Returns" but the filmmakers are inviting comparisons since they rely so much on certain events that occurred in the first two films, even going so far as to reuse some of Tom Mankiewicz's dialog. It's obvious when watching the film that a lot of money and hard work went into making it...with the exception of the screen writing which is where this film falls short. It insists on making several characters dumber than they would appear. Take Richard, concerned about an old article Lois wrote called "I spent the night with Superman". Richard boy, she has a kid. She obviously spent the night with SOMEONE before she met you. If you really stop and consider it, every character in the film is basically commanded by the script to do something kind of dumb in order to advance the unimaginative story.Perry White assigns Clark Kent the task of looking into a mysterious blackout. At no time in the film is it remotely hinted that he has been doing anything of the sort (or anything at all, when you think about it), whereas Lois in defiance of White is seen in several scenes looking into it, and it becomes a major plot point. Meanwhile Kent (Superman, mind you) is doping around the office.The powers of Superman are well known. And writers can have a lot of fun being resourceful with them. But not in this film. Everything Superman does is predictable. By comparison think back on the way Superman saved California after the bomb struck. Things like having the train run across his back in part 1 or freezing the lake with his breath then dropping it on an out-of-control fire in part 3 are what I'm talking about.The music wisely incorporates John Williams classic score, but a lot of cues are overused, especially "Can You Read My Mind?" which has little place in this film considering the tepid relationship between Superman and Lois. It could have been used to great effect just once, when she visits an unconscious Superman in the hospital, where everything she feels for him comes to the surface. Instead, we're hit over the head with it practically every time they run into each other.I thought Luthor's plot had interesting promise. But I find it puzzling that after his test run in the Atlantic Ocean Metropolis is basically now literally standing on shaky ground, and the skyscrapers all have questionable structural integrity after the shock-wave ran through them, shaking the foundations to the point that all the windows shattered in every building and even the Daily Planet's iconic sculpture topples from atop the building.Director Singer certainly subscribes to Richard Donner's "verisimilitude" approach to the first film, the lack of which is what killed the series in the 80s. I like Brandon Routh as Superman and Kevin Spacey as Lex Luthor. You could recast everyone else for all I care. Kate Bosworth is a walking pot of boiling water. Feisty and headstrong are one thing, but i think they pushed that too far in this film. Why in hell is Richard or Clark/Superman attracted to her?I've noticed a lot of people, hungry for this film to come out, are satisfied with the product. If this review has a low "helpful" score it's because they are blindly supporting the film. This review was written for anyone who knows how to discern between quality and quantity, particularly when it comes to film. I so very much wanted to love this film. Hollywood studios have a way of systematically destroying every decent franchise they get their hands on. In spite of my relative disappointment of the movie, it's far from being horrible. It's just not great...like it should have been.
__label__6 After the critically acclaimed and much successful 'Casino Royale' I had hopes that 'Quantum of Solace' could rival this years best movie so far: 'The Dark Knight'. Well... it doesn't even come close.There use to be a time when Bond movies where trendsetting...I remember when director Doug Liman some time ago said he wanted to make "Bond for a new generation" - so he dug up Jason Bourne. Several received Oscars and years later, we now have the Bond franchise mimicking the Bourne franchise instead. How ironic. If you are a Bond fan like me, and - when the endcredits roll - think to yourself that the movie you just saw had more in common with the last two Bourne-movies, than the first 21 Bond-movies, then you know there's a problem! On paper Quantum of Solace may be a Bond movie. But many of those things that people use to associate with Bond movies are gone. Some for no obvious purpose or reason.It wasn't enough for them to take away Moneypenny, Q, the gadgets, the humor and witticism, his "shaken, not stirred", the line "my name is Bond, James Bond." They even ditched the famous opening gunbarrel-sequence, and you won't hear the James Bond theme right until the very end (as in Casino Royale which - besides being 40 minutes longer - "felt" more like a Bond movie)And what's up with this new style of filming and editing?Well, they hired the editor, the stuntteam and 2nd unit director of... yes, you guessed it - the Bourne movies. So do not under any circumstance buy tickets for the first 10 rows - you will regret it. I was sitting in the 15th row at an advance fan-screening and even there I would be reaching for my seasickness-pills if I had any.Because with this annoying new MTV-style editing (which is suppose to add "realism") known from the Bourne-movies with shaking hand-held cameras in which you have a hard time following what really is happening on screen, especially in a crowded surrounding, you will be better off sitting as far back as possible in the theatre. Luckily this style is - unlike Bourne 2 and 3 - not incorporated into every single scene in Quantum of Solace. Far from it. But it's there, and it's very annoying, in my opinion. It actually ruined much of the first two action set-pieces for me, and by then we were only 30 minutes into the movie.Quantum of Solace is very fastpaced, like a Bourne/Bond-movie should be. We jump from location to location, actionsequence to actionsequence. It can be very confusing watching Bond on a rampage still dealing with "personal issues" (like Bourne). Bourne Ultimatum had a rooftop-chase. So does Quantum of Solace. Bourne Ultimatum had a fistfight in a small cluttered apartment filmed the way I mentioned earlier. Well, so does Quantum of Solace. How original!It's like they took some of the best parts of the two last Bournemovies and said "let's do almost the exact same thing and add something more, like letting him fly a plane." So Bond does that, in what I think is the second-best part of the movie. The best part for me, was oddly enough not an actionsequence, but when Bond for once does some real spywork on a floating operastage accompanied by a great music score. Very Bondian. For this, for Dennis Gassners terrific production design, for David Arnolds usual great score and for Craigs cool performance, I give it six stars. A note to the producers of the Bond movies: Now that you played around with Bourne, can we have 007 back for Bond 23, please?
__label__6 Stunt, stunt, stunt, crash. Stunt, stunt, stunt, crash. Explosion.QUANTUM OF SOLACE, directed by Marc Foster like a speed freak on crank and edited by Matt Chesse and Richard Pearson like a chicken fight in a monkey house, makes THE BOURNE IDENTITY look like MY DINNER WITH ANDRE.As I watched the opening car chase grind metal, and the subsequent foot chase beat streets through an Italian town during a horse race, one question kept surfacing: Did I accidentally walk into TRANSPORTER 3?QUANTUM OF SOLACE exists only for its next popcorn chase sequence only to show off its next stunt, with editing that will maim your optic nerves. Your eyes will start hurting long before you realize there's nothing on screen worth watching.Daniel Craig, still chiseled like a Grecian statue, still super-cool and super-cruel, is listed as playing Ian Fleming's super-spy character, James Bond.But is it still Bond? Having recently watched two of Pierce Brosnan's outings (GOLDENEYE and DIE ANOTHER DAY), I see that Brosnan (a perfect Bond, I might add) never colored so far outside the lines of the character that he became not just unrecognizable, but indistinguishable from the morass of other taut-buttocked man-toys glutting the action hero landscape. That's the tragedy here - Craig could be Jason Statham or Clive Owen or Jet Li; the Bond franchise might have been resurrected/reimagined in CASINO ROYALE, but there is not enough "essence of Bond" left by venturing so far outside the box in QUANTUM.There is still the suaveness, sure, but the infamous Bond gadgets? Not a trace, except maybe the soaring height of computer technology displayed by the whole MI6 organization. Aston Martin? Only a banged up version in the opening car chase. Flamboyant villain? Well, he's indeterminately Euro with designs on absolute power. Ironic banter? Nope. Quips? Nope. Sex with leading lady? Nope - instead, a glorified extra. Even the catchphrase, "Bond. James Bond" is absent. And the laughable Bond death-traps where - like the 1960s Batman - he is left to die in some contraption with a countdown that allows him just enough time to find an improbable escape with no one watching? Bond actually turns the table on this one, leaving the villain in the desert with only a can of motor oil to sustain him.Written by the talented Paul Haggis, the Evil Plot in this Bond film is congruent with today's morally muddy politics, where a shady "green" entrepreneur, Gordon Greene (Mathieu Amalric), deals hand-in-glove with the CIA and the British government, who both admit, "if we didn't do business with villains we wouldn't be doing business at all." Of course, Greene's ultimate aim is power over others - in this case, monopolizing the water supply in Bolivia, using "environmentalism" as a cover.For those not paying attention, there are the eye-straining fight scenes and chase scenes to keep you amused: car chase, boat chase, plane chase, moped chase, foot chase across rooftops (where've I seen that before? Oh yeah - the last Bond film!), wholesale destruction following in the wake of Bond and his pursuers.Meanwhile, that wrinkled old man in charge of MI6, Judi Dench, goes swishing about doubting Bond's trust because he is mooning over a chick who got murdered in the last film. So Bond goes rogue long enough to plonk a newbie bimbo by the name of Fields, then finds her dead like the chick in GOLDFINGER, covered in oil instead of gold. (Black gold?, heh heh--Waitaminute! Even if you were dipped in crude oil like a shrimp cocktail, wouldn't it just slide off? How does it cake her body like black syrup?) And the leading lady - in these films, termed Bond Girl - Olga Kurylenko, doesn't even schtupp Bond! Isn't that the POINT of being a Bond Girl?! Detached to the point of boring, Kurylenko's ice queen character is ironic, playing some kind of double-agent with a burn scar on her back that I couldn't stop looking at, tooling about a searing desertscape, trapped in a hotel fire - yet generating not one iota of heat. Let's face it: Bond's universe is no place for a woman too independent. Our primal instincts felt the old magic when dippy Fields bantered with Bond, but that misogynistic fun was not to last. Excuse the pun, but - 18 million cracks, my arse! Why does everyone moan about the title? Does anyone know what Quantum means outside of physicists and Scott Bakula fans? (From IMDb:) According to Henry Chancellor in his book James Bond - The Man and His World, "Quantum of Solace" relates to the necessary iota of emotion that is needed between lovers.Now tenuously link this with Bond seeking revenge for his last bébé and the villainous organization named Quantum. Thank the junkets we don't have to view the film for this info, which takes us from Haiti, to Italy, Bolivia, Austria, London, Russia, and leaves us north of Eye-Strain.QUANTUM opens with the good ole sexploitation gimmick of sand dunes as naked women, Alicia Keys and John White singing, Another Way to Die; closes with the gun barrel motif and classic Bond theme music.Just like the last film, Bond's healing abilities are like Wolverine: every little face cut - healed by the next scene. In CASINO ROYALE, he plonked Vesper Lynn mere days after his mandacious torture - can the franchise heal itself as quickly as Wolverine Bond's ballsac?
__label__6 Based on the massive popularity of the first installment, "Piates of the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl," in 2003, it was only natural for a sequel to this Disney swashbuckler to make its way to theatres.After an adequate amount of time, "Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest," starring most of the last movie's original cast, Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom, Keira Knightly, Jonathan Pryce, etc. has hit the big screen.And while the visuals, special effects and sets are extraordinary, the film seems to drag on searching for coherence in a meandering plot line which drifts all over the South Seas. It's not that I did not like this picture, or enjoy certain parts immensely, it's simply another case of the first one being better, as well as easier to understand."Dead Man's Chest" picks up basically where the first left off, but Will Turner (Bloom) and Elizabeth Swann (Knightly) are arrested on Port Royale by Lord Cutler Beckett (Tom Hollander, "Pride & Prejudice," "The Libertine"). The charge: Conspiring to aid in the escape of noted pirate, Capt. Jack Sparrow (Depp). The possible penalty: Death by hanging (the British answer to everything).Cutler gives Turner an option, however. Find Sparrow and retrieve a certain key to a certain treasure chest, and all will be forgiven. Meanwhile, Sparrow and his motley crew have beached on a remote South Pacific island (thanks to Jack's non-functioning compass) inhabited by cannibals. While the crew is imprisoned in huge, round, wooden cages suspended from high cliffs, Sparrow is treated like a demigod.After a series of goofy, but funny chases, the fun cannot last here, though, and with Turner's help, most of the men (and Jack) beat a hasty retreat from the venue. A side trip to visit what seems like a voodoo conjurer, Tia Dalma (Naomie Harris, "A Cock & Bull Story"), sheds a little more light on things. A key such as Beckett described to Turner does indeed exist; and it opens the chest which contains the still-living heart of Davy Jones, the mythical sailor punished for all eternity for falling in love with a woman (or something to that effect).Shortly thereafter, the Black Pearl is overtaken by the ghostly Flying Dutchman, captained by none other than the squid-like Davy Jones (Bill Nighy, "Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy," "The Constant Gardner"), and manned by a doomed crew now more fish and barnacle than man. Turner is kept on board while Jack, to pay off some debt to Jones, is sent to bring 100 souls to Jones as a ransom. On this ship, Turner also meets his doomed father, "Bootstrap" Bill Turner (Stellan Skarsgard, "King Arthur," "Exocist: The Beginning").Jones, who keeps the key on his slimy person, also has sway over a huge sea monster, the Kraken, which can destroy a vessel and its crew in a matter of moments. The special effects in these sequences are terrific.Meanwhile, Swann has stowed away aboard another ship, and convinces the captain to put in at the pirate port of Tortuga, where Sparrow is recruiting another crew, including the disgraced former Commodore James Norrington.When she meets Jack, some sparks fly, but it's in her hands that the compass finally begins to lead the way to the "dead man's chest." It seems that each of the protagonists - Sparrow, Turner and Norrington - want Davy Jones' heart for themselves, and this sets off a hilarious three-way battle for the organ.As expected, Depp is great in this role (although he seems a bit more spaced-out, or intoxicated most of the time), and there are some pretty good moments here (such as the triple sword-fight on a huge rolling water mill), if one can sit through the plot complications long enough to figure out what's going on. The conclusion paves the way an obvious sequel (due for release in 2007), so that last picture may clear up some of the confusion from this one.
__label__6 I recently attended an early screening for the film at Disney's California Adventure and wow it was great. The story is well told and gives you a good idea of how a man named John Reid becomes the Lone Ranger who is brilliantly played by Armie Hammer. Johnny Depp obviously stole the show for his portrayal of Tonto; I thought it was one of his best characters he's ever played. The highlight here is the two's chemistry throughout the film, these are two very different people who both have different perspectives on life and they were just hilarious together. My only problem with the film was the supporting cast, I thought some characters were a little under developed and not as enjoyable as the leads. I wished the villain were just as enjoyable like how Geoffrey Rush was for Curse of the Black Pearl. So in other terms the film is not as good as Curse of the Black Pearl but more superior then the Prate sequels. Go see this movie you'll have a great time, and people can learn from this movie it's got some good messages.
__label__6 Last warning for spoilers:After falling in love with "The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe," I was expecting an amazing sequel from the same people. "Prince Caspian" was a disappointment, however.The changes made from the book were so many and extreme that Adamson (the director) completely altered the theme of the story. The character of Peter was so changed that one questions what exactly he learned from Narnia that he will not be allowed to return. From the fighting at the beginning of the film in England because he is upset about being young again to the power struggles with Caspian, his title of "The Magnificent" was sullied.Caspian fared no better. In making him an adult and Miraz the Lord Regent, they made a crown Prince not even knowledgeable about the fact that the throne is his and that no other Lords who are suspicious of Miraz ever talking to Caspian about his birthright. That is unrealistic. Even worse, they turned Caspian into a vengeful man who jeopardized a mission to attempt to avenge his father's death.What was worse, however, was that Adamson chose action and battle scenes to character development. There were so many characters introduced but none of them were rounded out. It felt as if the characters were background to the action. They did what they did because they were supposed to rather than any meaningful reason due to their personality.As a Narnia book series fan, this was a major disappointment. It really felt like Adamson redid a mediocre medieval war movie adding Narnian characters for effect.Bob
__label__6 I am a Narnia obsessed nerd, so of course I went to see it the night it was released. I had very high expectations because the first movie was so true to the book. However, with this film that wasn't the case. The screen play was pretty much completely rewritten and included only hints of the original story. I suppose Disney felt it necessary to add in lame typical movie elements that attract mainstream moviegoers. For example a sub-plot romance between Caspian and Susan and battles that never existed. This movie not only failed to develop the characters and events as well as the book, it changed the characters and situations that it did develop.
__label__6 Prince Caspian expands on the battles in the book; turning them from a few pages long into 30 - 45 minute epic fights that borrowed more than a little from The Return of the King. While competently choreographed -- this is far from the cinematic epic the overreaching soundtrack wants you to believe that it is.The movie is entertaining, but rough around the edges. The editing is poor and one scene in particular should have been removed entirely as it does nothing for the film, outside of extend its already substantial length.Is it better than The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe? That all depends on your stylistic preferences. If you're the wonderment, fairy-tale, unlimited Turkish Delight type you'll prefer the first Narnia. If you're a darker, sword and sorcery fan you'll consider Prince Caspian the better movie.Both were worth the price of admission, but both left me feeling like they were one script doctor, soundtrack and/or director away from being the perfect fantasy movies they could have been. That said, Prince Caspian certainly warrants a bucket of popcorn and a fun Sunday afternoon at the theater with the family.
__label__6 I have a lot of trouble saying that I enjoyed the movie. I've read the book series several times, so I was thrown when the movie started with the birth of Miraz's son and was shortly followed by Caspian blowing Susan's Horn. I felt that the movie skipped a huge opportunity to build up Caspian's character and mindset, as well as Miraz's paranoia towards Narnia, by jumping to the birthing scene. Movie-goers who've never read the book really wouldn't understand why Caspian would be safe in the woods, or why Miraz's council was missing so many members. I also felt that Caspian using the horn when he did, rather than using it after he had already built up an army and had already lost several key battles, took away from his character development. The film, by having the Pevensie children come in so early, made it seem as though the Pevensies were the military geniuses. As a result, when Caspian states that he did not feel ready to be king, the movie audience wouldn't see that as a humble statement. I was confused by the siege of the castle scene, though the justification given in the FAQ makes some sense - I just don't see why it was given so much screen time. And the romance between Susan and Caspian was very odd, unless they placed that in there to allude to The Last Battle, where Susan didn't join the rest of the Pevensies because of her interest in make-up and boys.As one who's read the books, I didn't enjoy this movie as much as I enjoyed The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe. My husband, who has only read TLTWATW, also did not enjoy the Prince Caspian movie. He felt that the opening scene was confusing because it thrust the audience into the middle of the action, with little to no discussion on what led up to that night. He also felt that the characters weren't well-developed.I'm still trying to understand the justification for Peter's rudeness throughout the movie.
__label__6 Although MIB3 wasn't necessarily a 'bad' movie, it certainly wasn't as good as it could have been. It seemed, while watching the marketing plugs, like they were going to bring the big guns and bring back all the funny stuff and cool special effects, but they just fell short. The original was quite good -- Funny, a little scary, cool characters, good stunts, very original. Part II was just bad. So, if you are going to wait 10 years to do a three-quel that nobody really was dying to see because part 2 was so bad, then you better make part 3 REALLY good -- Right? Well -- It wasn't REALLY good. It was OK. I wanted to love it, but I honestly only barely liked it. It was lacking the things that made the franchise 'cool.' There was no talking pug, no funny pawn shop guy, no real interesting or funny aliens at all. The lead bad-guy alien was a somewhat interesting character, but no real personality. Nothing that made you want more of him. And other than him, there was hardly any other aliens in it. One little stint in a Chinese restaurant, but nothing rememorable. No funny ones. I just don't understand not making more characters like the ones that made the first such a hit. And even Wil Smith wasn't funny. He was funnier during his promotions on talk shows than in his movie. He just seemed to walk through the whole thing.ABSOLUTELY NO REASON to see it in 3D. None.I hate to say it -- But the special effects were awful. With technology today, most special effects are seamless. As an audience, we now 'expect' good effects. Half the time, it was very obvious when they were using backdrops and green screens and had super-imposed stuff. That's just a deal-breaker in today's movie-going world. The one truly redeeming quality it had -- and it was good -- was Josh Brolin playing the younger K (Tommy Lee Jones). He was spot on and did a great job. But even that isn't enough to carry a movie that wants to be a summer Blockbuster.Bottome Line -- Rent it. It's worth seeing if you have it lying around the house and have nothing to do, but not if you have to pay full price, and nothing you have to run right out and see.And this is from a fan of Wil Smith, Tommy Lee Jones, and Josh Brolin.
__label__6 Well it's been 10 years since the dismal MIB2 where Johnny Knoxville at the height of his Jackass fame was miscast as an obscure evil sidekick, so 3 is at the very least an improvement. However, the 3D is not worthy, while other than a few decent gags from the fast talking Will Smith, it's Josh Brolin who steals every scene he appears in as the young Agent K. Sending Agent J back to the swinging 1960's New York was cool, especially in a clever Andy Warhol moment and a few observational one-liners The non-event plot as it turns out could have been extended more and gets plain ridiculous at a NASA launch, but there is a nice emotional touch at the end, but too little too late. Certain scenes are expertly choreographed, effects are mostly cool, the bad guy here (both versions) is a waste of time and boring. Overall MIB3D works as popcorn entertainment for kids.
__label__6 I had very high expectations and who wouldn't? Ridley Scott directing a great adventure with a very solid cast and a high budget.The movie didn't really start the way I thought it would. The pace was quite slow but very interesting, and I was gripped. The interaction between Robin and his fellow soldiers was quite believable and entertaining, and the story about the English crown succession was also nicely done.The entire chapter about Nottingham and its citizens is also at a nice and slow pace, but its never dull. Von sydow is a pleasure to see as usual, and both Crowe and Cate Blanchett delivers. You just sit and smile, when things suddenly goes very very wrong...It starts when Walter Loxley explains Robins past to him. The scene is rushed and it seems a bit far-fetched. Also the following scene when robin goes to the meeting of the barons. Ridley must at this time peeked at his watch and noticed that he let most of the movie pass without telling much, and start to massacre the script.The Nottingham action scene is where it's starting to go seriously wrong. You can't really get to understand how Robin suddenly is in command of an army, and speaking to lords as their equal. Especially when they call him by his common name in a scene later. The pace is really off here too... Action scene-Action scene-Short grief scene- Love scene- And on horseback against the French again in a 5min gap. Set in contrast to the feelgood mode you were in this is a very rude awakening.After this you are handed a fighting scene that is absurd in every way. The landing craft is from WW2 (what possible use does the landing bridge have on these boats?). The battle is a slaughter, the French never stand a chance(not very interesting). When suddenly Marion appears on the beach with the local teenage runaways on ponies I just shake my head... why?! It's just stupid?! Also they seem to be trained by ninjas and easily takes on trained French soldiers.There is an ending after, but its thrown together in five minutes.In one line.This movie had a lot of potential, but it's thrown away on hasted parts and plain stupid scenes.
__label__6 Most reviews will tell you what's so great about this movie and why it's worth watching, but I figured you should hear the other side of the story.First of all a small note for Tolkien fans. If you thought An Unexpected Journey strayed a bit too far from the book: The Desolation of Smaug looks like the script writers didn't even know there was a book. The movie tries hard to change the story wherever it can, reducing fan-favorite chapters to 5 minute scenes and writing new content that feels out of place.But it's not only bad if you've read the book. I really wonder what the target audience is, because it feels like it's written for 15 year old boys. There are random action scenes every 10 minutes and 'funny' decapitations every 30. The worst thing here is that the action comes at the cost of character development. You have a band of 13 Dwarfs and a Hobbit, yet you rarely see them interact.Now I like Elves more than Dwarfs, so I didn't mind seeing so much of them in this movie. But having them show up in every place to save the day feels wrong. Perhaps Peter Jackson thought his cast of Dwarfs wasn't good enough to create an enjoyable movie? Gandalf's scenes in Dol Guldur were an interesting addition in concept, but they are just too slow. I feel his scenes mostly serve as an attempt to raise The Hobbit to The Lord of the Rings' level of epicness. And that just doesn't work.The story is full of illogicalities. How does entering the mountain to steal the Arkenstone to unite the Dwarfs to kill the Dragon to enter the mountain work exactly?? And remember that heartwarming last scene of An Unexpected Journey, where Thorin finally accepts Bilbo? Well, that's all gone again. Even though he keeps outsmarting all the Dwarfs, Bilbo is back to being an unappreciated 5th wheel of the party. And did the writers really think viewers would be so desperate for a love story that they'd enjoy an Elf and a Dwarf flirting it up? Their scenes feel forced and are painful to watch.Martin Freeman's acting is top notch again, but sadly he hardly gets any screen time. He only shines in his scene with Smaug. Now Smaug as a character is awesome, no complaints there. Yet most of his scenes are way too dragged out. There's a 20 minute scene with the Dwarfs running around thinking they can defeat him. Only at that point the movie already hinted at the only possible way of defeating him. Perhaps the worst aspect is that these scenes make Smaug look like an unintelligent creature. Dwarfs luring a Dragon around by going "Nana-nanana you can't catch me!" is not only silly and cliché, it's an insult to Smaug's character.Final complaint: the whole movie builds up to a scene.... that's apparently going to be the opening scene of movie 3. Nobody in the cinema was sure if the movie had ended, or there was just an awkwardly long pause when the screen went black.A movie like this you'll want to see, no matter how good or bad it is. You can't miss out on such a huge release, especially when it looks gorgeous in HFR 3D. But where I watched each Lord of the Rings movie 3 times in cinema, watching The Desolation of Smaug just once was enough for me.In the end, most problems of the movie seem to stem from the decision to turn the cute Hobbit tale into three epic movies that have to live up to the Lord of the Rings hype. It doesn't work.
__label__6 His Dark Materials: Northern Lights, the original name for the book, in the UK. What a poignant, mysterious title for a book. The Golden Compass? Well, it doesn't quite have the same impact, does it? The use of the American name of the book for the film really didn't bother me at first, but as early warning signs come, it doesn't get much more obvious than this; we should have guessed from the off that this was going to be a very different beast to the book.As a huge fan of Philip Pullman's epic trilogy, I had been eagerly anticipating this film adaptation for at least a year. I had fallen in love with the books a while back; not due to the fantastical elements, but due to the way it introduced this fantastical parallel universe to the reader in a slow, subtle, familiar way and made it feel real and tangible. The books are gritty, rugged and at times violent, and the stories' themes are philosophical and even spiritual in a way. It grieves me to say that the film misses the point; concentrating instead, on the fantasy, the action and the giant talking polar bears (panserbjorne).The story is the same: it follows the exploits of a young orphan girl, Lyra, who lives among scholars at Oxford's Jordan College, in a world parallel to our own, in which every human is joined to a physical manifestation of their soul (daemon). One day Lyra hears hushed talk of an extraordinary particle which is rumoured to possess profound properties that could unite whole universes. But there are those who fear the particle and would stop at nothing to destroy it. Children are also being kidnapped left, right and centre, and Lyra's best friend, Roger, is among them. Catapulted into the heart of a desperate struggle, Lyra is forced to seek aid from witches, gyptians, and formidable armoured bears, to help her save her friends from these evil experiments.But the soul of the story is all but gone. Gone is the mystery; the slow, developing understanding of a person's bond with their daemon; and the gentle, calm introduction to each character and their entwining relationships. Granted, such a complex story was always going to be difficult to adapt, but surely restricting it to such a short-time span (114 minutes) to tell the story just increases that difficulty. By ripping out the very things that made the novel so spell-binding and original, we're left with an ultimately quite hollow, shallow and self-conscious movie, which is more interested in showing off it's (admittedly breathtaking special effects) than telling an interesting story.The problem isn't that I've read the books. The problem is that this film is very nearly a complete disaster, even as a film unto it's own right; there is no character development, some of the dialogue is awfully contrived and the pacing is all over the shop. Virtually everything from the book is in there, in fact; it's just every scene flies by at a ridiculous pace. The characters are given no time to breathe or grow and concepts such as the daemons, Dust and the magesterium are explained to you via convoluted exposition rather than simply shown to you. The result is a rather detached feeling and thus you never care about any of the characters, which is a crying shame, considering the source from which the stories came.Oddly, despite nearly being a disaster, the film could have gone the other way - some of it teeters on perfection even. For one, it is visual eye candy, with the design departments each paying extraordinary attention to detail in their creation of Lyra's world and it is not their fault that Weitz's (or New Line's) vision differs so wildly from Pullman's description. Also, the acting itself from almost everyone is very strong, with each actor portraying the characters from the books superbly. Daniel Craig owns both scenes he's in, as Lord Asriel does in the book; Nicole Kidman's magnetic, seductive beauty is perfect for Mrs Coulter; Sam Elliott charms and delights as Lee Scoresby; and Dakota Blue Richards is every bit the lovable rogue of the Lyra of the novel. (Had there not been the need for her to be so pleonastic, the audience might even have actually cared about her).As far as entertainment goes, the whole film is actually pretty high up the scale; captivating and engrossing the audience throughout, who barely have time to catch a breath. It's a damn good spectacle, that's for sure. It's just an utter shame how great this could have been on many levels, and how as it is it's only a little better than your average family adventure film. Children from about 8-14 WILL love this, but it doesn't have the depth or layers of, say... The Lord of the Rings (the comparison was always inevitable), to not only entertain, but to excite, thrill, shock, scare, move, and even inspire viewers of all ages, like it could have done.As far as summaries go, you need just watch the film, which is over in an instant and in fact runs very much like a summary of the book. It's worth watching for the entertainment value but you'll probably have forgotten about it by tomorrow.It sounds like a pretty scathing review, but I still think the quality of the story shines through in the end, and most people will find something to enjoy on some level. It is certainly unlike anything you've ever seen: so very good and yet so very, very unsatisfactory.Must do better.
__label__6 An evil empire called the Magestirium attempts total control of the population by hiding the secrets or parallel universes and a unifying particle called Dust in Chris Weitz's clunky but entertaining adaptation of Philip Pullman's "The Golden Compass"."Harry Potter" and "The Lord of the Rings" have never apologized about their overt paganism. Likewise, "The Chronicles of Narnia" have never been accused of being subtle as a Christian allegory. These series, in both literary and film forms, have been monster hits due to their unapologetic natures that speak truths to their ardent fan bases. British writer Philip Pullman's darkly subversive anti-religious fantasy books have also been hugely successful, more so overseas than here in the States. Stripped of the books' overt atheistic messages, "The Golden Compass" takes a reverse psychology approach in its film treatment and oddly positions itself as an apology for Pullman's work. The result is a tepid affair that joins a long line of fantasy films about children discovering they are the chosen ones destined to save the world. At least this film is refreshing in its stance on girl-power as represented in the main character Lyra, played wonderfully by newcomer Dakota Blue Richards, who apparently is a graduate of the Dakota Fanning school of acting. Whether or not this tactic to strip the film of its soul (much like the Magesiterium strips children of their daemons) will make the film broadly appealing enough to warrant a franchise has yet to be determined.The film comes across as more anti-authoritarianism in general than specifically anti-religion. In the 21st century the line between authoritarian politics and organized religion has become increasingly blurred. Since we currently live in a world where a born-again Christian sits in the White House and wages wars in Muslim nations, it's easy to see why folks from both sides of the aisle, ardent fans of the books and conservative Christians alike, have been worked up into a mindless and silly frenzy over even just a watered-down film version of the first of Pullman's "His Dark Materials" trilogy, with one side saying it's not wickedly subversive enough, and the other side saying it's still subversively wicked.However, viewing the film out of the context of the books upon which it is based and the ridiculous faux-controversy surrounding them, it makes the grade as a big-budget fantasy flick. Yes, there are too many characters to keep track of, and the film has rushed feel to it as if it was edited at the last minute, but it still makes for an interesting trip. Kids will be wowed by the elaborate set designs and CGI effects, which are far superior to the ones in the similarly clunky but still entertaining "Chronicles of Narnia" and culminate in an awesome battle sequence involving armored polar bears--take that Global Warming! Adults will get a kick out the nimble ensemble cast, who all seem to be having a great deal of fun with the self-seriousness of the whole production and are headlined by Nicole Kidman--botoxed, full-lipped and deliciously frosty in a creepy villain role that suits her perfectly.Possibly the strangest aspect of the film comes as an accidental subtext resulting from its apologetic nature. With its depiction of mystical-minded do-gooders rallying against the totalitarian Magestirium, "The Golden Compass" almost comes across as a period piece anti-Communist allegory rallying for the fall of the Soviet Union. It makes the film feel charmingly dated. There's also the disturbing subtext of child abuse at the hands of the Catholic Church as seen in the Magestirium's cruel experiments with kidnapped children, which makes the film feel charmingly grotesque.Bottom Line: Any movie that depicts Nicole Kidman walking around with a monkey and preaches the importance of free will, making bonds, sticking together, and fighting for your friends and loved ones can't be all that bad. Despite some of the themes of the books being exorcised and arbitrarily presented by a poorly chosen Chris Weitz (a director known for his comedies "American Pie" and "About a Boy"), "The Golden Compass" still has enough interesting elements and old-fashioned razzle dazzle presented with new age CGI to make it entertaining. At its worst, it presents two hours of dark fantasy-land eye candy. At its best, it encourages adults and children alike to use their free will to do something far better with their two hours, like read.
__label__6 A movie can do everything else right, but if the story requires the characters to do something that they would never do, ignores a huge elephant in the room that no one would ignore, etc., then it suddenly becomes garbage because it forces me out of the experience of going along for the ride.This movie could have been good. I love superheroes, especially when movies work in lesser known heroes. There's some witty dialogue and plenty of star power and special effects. However, the plot has an absurd contrivance that I cannot get past.In order to plot Captain America versus Iron Man, the authors could not come up with an intelligent misunderstanding. Instead, Captain America's friend is framed for a crime and Iron Man thinks he's guilty, even when event after event makes this highly dubious, and even when his "friend" Captain America tells him he thinks his friend may be innocent. Sorry, based on the track record of this relationship in the movies, Iron Man would HAVE to step back and think twice about this friend's guilt if Captain America really asked him to.Moreover, when towards the end Iron Man learns the friend was framed, but learns this friend also had been previously brainwashed to kill in the past, and had killed his parents, he then tries quite un- heroically to kill Cap's now un-brainwashed (and framed) friend.What part of brainwashing and mind-control does Iron Man not understand? If some one kills while under the influence of brainwashing and mind-control, they are the VICTIM, and you do NOT try to kill them after they manage to escape and overcome the brainwashing and mind-control.The writers somehow thought they could just sweep this under the intellectual rug by just moving the action along very quickly, as if this would not give the audience time to connect the dots and see how ridiculous and unrealistic this "dilemma" really was. Sorry, there was no true dilemma. Captain America was right and Iron Man was wrong, completely, and in a ridiculously contrived manner.
__label__6 I attended the Cast and Crew screening on Sunday, in Leicester Square, with high hopes for this film as it's without doubt the most exciting job I've had. This was my first feature experience, and working for Tim Burton was a hell of a way to start.But, even as someone with a lot of time for his films, and a pre-existing bias, I couldn't really connect with this. The cast acquit themselves well, especially considering the noted difficulty in emoting to a tennis ball on a stick, but all their tics and quirks seem to be masking a void at the centre of what should be a free-floating, evocative trip. Sure, it's weird looking, but we've seen it before, and back then in films like Edward Scissorhands it had a sense of purpose. Now we're left exploring a CGI wonderland that seems to be without a great deal of wonder. The book revels in its bizarre environs, absurd dialogue and whimsical characters. This film grounds them, drains them of that mystery and leaves us with a colourful but forgettable retread. It seems intent on driving us to a narrative conclusion that few people will have had much stake in through its running time, simply because we're not giving much to care for.With a source material so familiar, even to those whose knowledge is second hand references, there needs to be a degree of innovation (as in Svenkmejer's dark stop-motion version, or the co-opting of Terry Gilliam in to his "Tideland" narrative), or else a studious and inspired adaptation that completely returns to Lewis Carroll. What we end up with is a mid-point that fails to get to grips with what enchants people about the Alice story, and another chance to see a beautiful waif walk around twisted, quasi-Gothic landscapes to a score by Danny Elfman.Not that this isn't an enjoyable experience in itself, and as seen in the vast Screen 1 at the Empire it is at times breathtakingly pretty. It's just inessential, and while it may be unfair to expect a classic from a favoured filmmaker every time out, when they tackle something with the pedigree and history of Alice In Wonderland you can't help but hope for something special. And that's the problem, that Tim Burton, while he is still making decent films, has been a long way off special for some time now.6/10 (if they gave half stars it'd be 6.5), but that doesn't mean it's a bad film. It's possible that my grade is affected by high expectations and lost potential. If you have kids, I'm sure it'll be better than 90% of the dross that passes for family films now. At least there is some artistry involved, and while he might not be at his best I'll still always pay to see a Tim Burton film (although I got this one for free...)
__label__6 Adding a little bit of a background story and a few more characters to Alice's adventures didn't do as much as i thought it would for the story. Truthfully i wanted to love this movie, I'm a huge Tim Burton/ Johnny Depp fan. But this just didn't do it for me. I came out of the theater wondering if it were just the mediocre script or the director who had failed to meet my expectations. The best part of this movie is probably Johnny Depps portrayal of the mad hatter who truly is mad. However, Mia Wasikowska presents Alice in a dull manner that had me checking my watch every ten or fifteen minutes. Overall this film isn't awful, but at the same time its no masterpiece, for an interesting film to look at I suppose this would be an alright choice, however if you want a great story and compelling acting, you might want to check out something else, because this isn't the movie you're looking for.
__label__6 Tim Burton film version of Lewis Carroll's classic proves the special slickness of director to create weird worlds and strange characters . Alice (Mia Wasikowska)is 19-year-old and doesn't remember nothing about her former visit on Wonderland happened 10 years ago . Then she returns to the magical world from her childhood adventure, where she reunites with her old friends as Mad Hatter (Jhnny Depp), White Rabbit (voice of Michael Sheen), Chesshie Cat (Stephen Fry), Blue Caterpillar (voice of Alan Rickman) and learns of her true destiny: to end the Red Queen's (Helena Bonham Carter)reign of terror who helped by Knave of Hearts (Crispin Glover) is fighting her sister White Queen (Anne Hathaway)for the kingdom.Moving rendering of Lewis Carroll classic with gimmick of blending live action and computer generator puppets and 3D animation . Riveting for its casting , but overall , roller-coaster spectacle. Most of the charm and wit remains from original story in this particular version . It results to be an amusing of somewhat aloof , storytelling of children classic with a magnificent three-dimensional visual effects team at its best bring to life the following : the Cheshire cat , Blue caterpillar, the Queen of hearts, March Hare , Tweedledum and many others. Breathtaking array of technical effects with impressive set pieces illuminate the Alice's full-blown adventures. The amazing plot is pure entertainment and with interesting screenplay based on characters created by Lewis Carroll , though here Alice acts as a heroine who combats dragons , monsters and of course the evil Queen of Hearts . Episodic characters as Mad Hatter and Queen of Hearts are given major boost by strong personalities from Johnny Depp and Helena Bonham Carter . Spectacular final battle full of action , groundbreaking frames and fabulous fights . Overwhelming production design , though full of digital effects with impressive scenes and portentous images . Stirring musical score fitting perfectly to story by Danny Elfman and colorful cinematography by Dariusz Wolski . The motion picture lavishly financed by veteran producer Daryl F. Zanuck is originally directed by Tim Burton in his exceptional style. Rating : 6,5 acceptable rendition .Other take on based on this vintage tale are the following : 1933 by Norman Z McLeod with Gary Cooper , Edward Everett Horton and Jack Oakie ; 1950 by Dallas Bower with Carol Marsh , Pamela Brown and Felix Aylmer ; 1951 by Walt Disney directed by Clyde Geronimi, Hamilton Luke with voices of Sterling Holloway , Ed Wynn and Richard Haydn ; 1972 by William Sterling with Fiona Fullerton, Peter Sellers , Dudley Moore and Michael Crawford and TV version with Tina Majorino and Woopy Goldberg .
__label__6 Monsters, Inc. was the first Pixar movie where I saw their genius. Such an incredible mix of themes and emotions. From the basic premise of "humanizing" monsters to the tiny details in Boo's behavior that I did not notice until I had a daughter of my own, it was beautiful and original.My top Pixar movies are (in no particular order) Finding Nemo, Monsters, Inc., Wall-E and The Incredibles. These are movies that actually mean something to me.Monsters University is definitely better than Cars 2 and Brave, but I did not find that "magic ingredient" in it. If anything, it was formulaic - the same old story retold for the millionth time.It was certainly nice to see Sully and Mike again and see how they became friends, but the story was rather shallow with little character development (I would have loved to see Randall's evolution for example).
__label__6 Pixar, where has your courage gone? In this decade alone, we have been treated to two sequels, a prequel, a princess story (as if Disney doesn't have enough of those), with another sequel on the way. Pixar's Dreamworks mannerisms has been kind of unnerving, especially when we have seen the ballsy efforts like The Incredibles, Ratatouille, and especially (especially) Wall-E. The original stories are occurring less frequent, and while it's leading to guaranteed money for the company and Disney the die-hard Disney fans and film fanatics have been less than impressed.And now we have Monster's University. Surely the charm is there, the animation is the usual Pixar quality, and the production value remains the best in the animation business. But there was a constant sense of pointlessness to this prequel throughout the whole thing, and it lacks the heart and humor of the original Monster's Inc. The originality of the 2001 gem is also missing, as University dwells into familiar clichéd territory in the second half.This movie works well with the tykes and the true-blue Mike and Sully fans, but with the rest of us who really didn't care much to see how they met----well, there's not much here. It is simply about Mike and Sully's rivalry during the start of their university career and how they had to learn to accept each other if they ever wanted a chance to remain in the school.In the grand scheme of the G-rated filmmaking culture, Monster's University excels and surpasses that of the normal fare. But this is Pixar we are talking about, a company that bleeds pure quality and has created some of the greatest animated films in history. They have raised the bar too high to create something so.normal. It is odd from a Pixar movie to see failed jokes and a sense of predictability.It's not as funny, not as heartfelt, not as surprising, not as deep, and not as engaging as Pixar's best, and not even Dreamworks' best for that matter. It is simply light entertainment that will calmly entertain and not overwhelm---while at the same time not linger in your memory like Pixar's best like Toy Story, Nemo, Ratatouille and Up.Good but not great—and in Pixar standards that should never be good enough.
__label__6 This film continues a downward trend at Pixar, whose movies have declined measurably in quality, especially since being purchased by Disney.For a sequel, Monsters University makes an earnest effort, and is reasonably watchable. But there's not enough meat in the haphazard plot to really capture the viewer's imagination. The themes are childish and familiar.Technically, the film looks good, as expected. The voice acting from Crystal and Goodman are as good as you would expect.There's just not a lot else I can say about a sequel to a film which I always thought was a weaker entry in Pixar's catalog.
__label__6 I really loved Monsters Inc, but this movie failed to meet expectations. Yes, it offers a little back story on two of the most memorable characters of all time, but I was not attached to them like I was during the first movie. The best scenes are at the end when Roz makes an appearance...Mike and Sully are great characters, but in the first one, you had some minor characters who made the movie much more charming (Roz, Boo, etc...) and I just didn't find myself growing any attachment to Mike's college nerd buddies. A good movie and maybe would be much more entertaining to someone who hasn't seen the first (little kids would giggle at the monsters I'm sure), but this movie misses the mark.
__label__6 It's hard to believe that it's been 12 years since the original Monsters, Inc. graced the screens and introduced the world to a green, one-eyed motormouth named Mike Wazowski and a lovable furry giant called James P. 'Sully' Sullivan. Although it was far from Pixar's best effort, Inc was charming and a surprisingly moving little film that made a killing at the box office. So why the wait for a sequel? Cars 2 (2011) aside, Pixar have always prided themselves on putting story above all else, so perhaps the writers simply could not come up with something solid enough to warrant another outing for Mike and Sully. But now Disney are in charge, I guess that if there's money to be made, they'll make sure it's made.Before the events of Monsters, Inc., Mike (Billy Crystal) is a young monster with only one goal in his life - to become a top scarer at Monsters, Inc. The only problem is that he's not scary. Inspired by an encounter on a school trip, Mike studies and studies until he is enlisted in Monsters University, the best place for any budding scarer to learn their craft. Sully (John Goodman) enlists too, with a legendary family name and a clearly formidable appearance. Sully's lethargic approach to study annoys Mike, and a fallout between the two leads them to be kicked out of the class by the terrifying Dean Harscrabble (Helen Mirren). With seemingly no hope, Mike sees the upcoming Scare Games as the chance to prove himself to Harscrabble, who agrees to let him back in if he triumphs, only he has to team up with Sully to make up the numbers.The main problem with Pixar's output in the last few years is that they seem to be slowly moving away from making movies that please adults in equal amounts to children. Toy Story 3 was their last great movie and that was three years ago. Cars 2 and last year's Brave were mediocre efforts, certainly beautiful to behold but relatively hollow inside. Much of the same can be said for Monsters University, as although it's nice to see these characters again, it lacks that Pixar touch that led to so many of their films to now be considered classics of the genre. We are left with not much more than a collection of wonderfully constructed set-pieces based around a thin plot that we all know the result of anyway.Of the new additions, Charlie Day's Art and Helen Mirren's Dean Harscrabble steal the film, the former a truly bonkers creation and the latter given some quality thespian backing. We also get the welcome return of Steve Buscemi's Randy, who's downturn we get to witness thanks to a very clever moment. But ultimately, Monsters University's biggest problem is that it's just not that funny. The best moments are seen in the trailer (such as the snail monster trying not to be late for class on his first day), and the best aspects of college life can't be played with as they involve alcohol, drugs or boobs, a no-no even for Pixar. So we are left with a very pretty film (possibly the finest animation-wise to date) full of breathtaking set-pieces, but one that lacks that special touch I came to love from Pixar and one I am becoming reluctantly resigned to never seeing again.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com
__label__6 As expected, the effects were spectacular. The fight scenes were extravagant and fast-paced.The story though, couldn't keep pace. They kept stopping for a romance that was never developed (and no one really cared). The real thing that brought this movie down though was the constant stooping to this immature level. The had to have said @ss and balls 10 times (and that's a low estimate). Not only this, but those two twin autobots were introduced who were supposed to be "hip" maybe? They just turned out to be extremely annoying and to bring down the level of the movie as a whole.As a fan of the original cartoon series, I have to say I was really disappointed they stooped the level of immature @ss-balls humor and creating new characters with low IQ's. They could have done better. The action though, was amazing and I am still glad I paid to see it on the big screen.
__label__6 This film is arguably the most highly anticipated release of the summer, and you can see the pressure must have got to Michael Bay with the amount of crap he put into this movie to lengthen it.Firstly, i will say the action scenes and visual effects are great, and the addition of new "hip" auto-bots is good for young viewers (not anyone else though), but unfortunately you only really see any action until the last half, and then its still separated by unnecessary and tiresome romantic scenes, and even then, the action scenes become tiresome with large amounts of 300 style slow-mo and an obvious intention of Michael Bay to show everyone how great his visual effects are, as well as Megan Fox's boobs for the 14 year olds in the audience. Great Mr.Bay, we can see that, just give us a good film.The first half is largely made of useless footage of Sam at college and annoyingly frequent comedy scenes with his mum. The whole "college" section could have been compressed to about 20 to 25 minutes rather than an hour long.The plot is very good, and the stuff about the fallen is pretty gnarly. Its just a shame you don't find out about it till about the last third of the film, and there are a lot of plot holes - like why the hell didn't Sam give the splinter to Optimus Prime instead of his lame girlfriend?! But i think if they had started with the plot earlier and cut a lot of the "inbetween" they could have made the film a lot more fun.Overall, it is fun, but the faults become tiresome and therefore make the film tiresome, especially with its long length (2 and a half hours i believe). Worth Seeing yes, but definitely not the blockbuster monstrosity we were all looking forward to.6/10Edit: On reading other peoples comments, i want to say to any self respecting film lover, ignore the 1 or 2 star comments, but equally ignore the 9 and 10 star comment. Especially the 9 and 10s which go on about the special effects, i think they need to learn having good special effects doesn't give you a good movie. They'd get along with George Lucas pretty well though...
__label__6 I quite liked the first Transformers and this film. Neither of the Transformers films are masterpieces, but neither are terrible movies either in my opinion. And yes, this is coming from a fan of the 1984 series and 1986 movie. Transformers 2:Revenge of the Fallen is not the best of the year, but it is a long way from the worst either(not like The Ugly Truth or Dragonball Evolution). And is it the worst movie of all time as I have seen in some reviews and various message boards? For me, not even close.Does this mean it is completely flawless? No. The characters are rather shallow(the twins especially, they are offensive too), the story is formulaic with some of the scenes with the humans on the dull side, the Autobots get nowhere near enough screen-time and some of the script is weak going overboard with some lowbrow and immature humour. In regards to the latter though, it does have a few humorous and exciting parts so it wasn't quite as glaring as the characters and story problems and to be fair to those two problems the original suffered from the same problems exactly.But when it comes to the visual spectacle and effects, I can't fault this movie at all, the whole film does look amazing and the effects are in my view some of the best of the year. And the action sequences are very thrilling, there isn't too much and it makes up for the not-so-involving exposition with the human characters. The soundtrack is also fantastic, and the sound is very impressive in its authenticity. The acting is an improvement, Shia LaBoeuf is likable enough and while she is far from a great actress Megan Fox has improved as well. John Tuturo and Kevin Dunn are great too, but my favourite characters are Megatron and especially Optimus Prime voiced wonderfully by Hugo Weaving and Peter Cullen. Another improvement is Michael Bay's direction, I can find it murky and unfocused but it was serviceable here.Overall, an okay movie that gets some not-entirely deserved but understandable flack. 6/10 Bethany Cox
__label__6 Well, let's start with... The Good:The visual effects are 2nd to none. Raimi and his team have given their audience a bright and colorful world of wonder in a much more 'wowing' Land of Oz than that of the original film, and possibly even one that's more visually attractive than any other film to date. A very fun and crafty Rachel Weisz takes the role of Evanora and grips the audience with charm and viciousness in all the right doses. The supporting cast also performs pretty well, sometimes capturing that original 'Wizard of Oz' magic.The Bad: Going into this film with high expectations for the dialogue, & acting is going to leave you very disappointed. Two of the most featured roles of the film, Oz (played by James Franco) & Theodora, (played by Mila Kunis) are surprisingly and inexcusably portrayed very poorly. Franco's Oz is written to be about how you would expect him to be - complete with charm, wit, & deceit. However, the depth that you would expect to come with such an anticipated resurgence of a character is missing, & you can tell that Franco is having trouble buying into the role himself. The character quickly becomes stale at about 45 minutes in, and doesn't ever fully recover. Kunis feels the same - bored & devoid of passion for the lackluster lines given to her. Her character also has an issue with development, and is rushed from high to low so quickly that the audience doesn't have the opportunity to invest in her. The performances aren't the worst thing you'll ever see, but the lifeless script & awkward dialogue make it hard to stay focused. Even with a great script though, I feel as though Franco & Kunis weren't the best choices for their respective roles. The Ugly: The worst part of this movie is the story. It leaves you waiting for some kind of clever & unexpected plot twist, a little divulgence of the characters motivations, or even just some depth for the main focal points of the story. It's also somewhat obnoxious that this film takes elements of the original film that should have been left alone because the original film portrays Dorothy's entire journey as a dream in the end. (Such as transferring characters of "the real world" into characters of The Land of Oz) Without saying too much, I can tell you that this film is stuck somewhere between being a fun and family friendly revitalization of the original story and being a serious and intriguing fantasy film for a wide movie-going audience - and the formula just doesn't work. Having said all of that, I do not regret having gone to see Oz: The Great and Powerful, as the visuals do a great job of making up for everything that didn't work. I will warn you though, that the films run time of just over two hours can be difficult to sit through at times. Don't be afraid to take a bathroom break when it gets dry, you probably won't miss too much.
__label__6 Sam Raimi's prequel to L Frank Baum's Series of children's books plays greatly into Raimi's strengths as a director. A strong imaginary world that is covered in light and darkness and characters that inhabit that world with a quirky feel of childhood imagination. Raimi literally puts his heart and soul into this production and it shows, giving a festival of the senses with the viewer's imagination. While Raimi is working over time to make all of this work, a weak script and bad casting of two very important key roles set him back. The only thing that puts this film back on track is the game performances by two of the film's other actors, one in particular whose performance keeps this film from sinking from its own lack of depth.For what does not work, look no further than the script, which is not very well put together. Yes, it is a kid's film but kids are a lot more sophisticated than some of the dialog here and some of the kids in the audience I was with moaned a bit while hearing it. Moreover, yes, it is a prequel to a story that many people know, so there should not be any real surprises but that is no excuse to be lazy with the script and the scriptwriting is lazy here. What makes the problems with the script jump out here is some of the casting, which is just bad. A good actor is able to make a bad script some how work for their character; a bad actor only magnifies the scripts problems and makes their character look worse. Unfortunately, we have two actors completely wrong for their roles here and it only makes this movie even a bigger chore to sit throw. The first cinematic offense is the main character Oscar Diggs, who is not only the weakest character in the film but has an actor who just not believable in the role. James Franco can be a decent actor when he tries and he can be infuriatingly bad when he just stands there and not care about his performance, which he does here in this film. The character of Oscar Diggs is supposed to be the anchor of this film, a man that has to see the error of his ways in order to be the man that he is destine to be. However, thanks to Franco's lazy performance and the weakness of the script, we really cannot see the good in the character and is not impressed with his changed of heart when the time came to prove himself. Oscar comes across more as a sleazy opportunist than a man conflicted with his inner self and we cannot root for him at all. The character is wasted opportunity and really does not add to the story and thanks to Franco's inability to show sincerity with his role, we really do not care at all about poor Oscar or his problems. Another character we end up not caring for is the character of Theodora, who (Come on, the cat has been out of the bag for a while) becomes the Wicked Witch of the West. Thanks to the script and Mila Kunis inability to show range or any emotion outside of anger, we do not care about how this character loses her innocents to become the evil witch and we do not care what happens afterwords. While both Kunis and Franco fall flat on their faces performance wise, not all the actors fall by the waste side and some of them are able to transcend the weak script in order to gives performances than is able to salvage the good Sam Raimi tries to give to this film. The first one belongs to Michelle Williams, who plays Glenda the good witch and manages to give off the right kind of goodness and decency that her character needed to be believable with out the added fake sweetness. She is genuine and believable and is able to make her character work despite the weakness of the script. It also helps that Williams is an amazing actor with a lot of range and is able to tap into her strengths to achieve this feat. The best performance however belongs to the great Rachel Weisz, who almost single handedly saves this film from all of its shortcomings with a performance that not only transcends its weak script but also manages to be even better technically than the film as a whole. When the script keeps moving south, Its Weisz that keeps moving the film forward. She gives a fun and sassy performance that manages to make the character of Evanora much more than the standard fairy tale villain and manages to give off a level of understanding and complexity that does not talk down to its audience. It is a brilliant performance with a weak script and only the best actors manage to accomplish that feat with out breaking a sweat and Weisz does that effortlessly.While the script is weak and some of the performances pretty bad, it is the efforts of Weisz, Williams and Raimi that keeps it from falling off a cliff. For them only is the reason you should see this movie.
__label__6 Sam Raimi's excursion into the Land of Oz is somewhat of a sight to behold, with great sets and wonderful use of CGI that does not over power the senses or your cinematic tastes. Too bad for this film, bad casting decisions on two of the characters and a way too simplistic story sets it back somewhat. Raimi does not throw up too many computerize affects and a great deal of Oz is old school charm with grand sets and costuming. That benefits this film greatly and makes Oz a real cinematic treat. The performances are for the most part spot on with great turns by Rachel Weisz (Weisz has the most fun in her role) Michelle Williams, who gives a noble performance as Glenda the good witch and the third best belongs to the voice over of Zach Braff, who gives a funny performance as a talking monkey sidekick. With these performances and Raimi's technical savvy, the film almost takes off, almost. What keeps it from being any better is the story, which is fine but flimsy and predicable. Yes, it is a sort of prequel and you know what is going to happen but there are no surprises to be found here and most of the so-called surprises are ruined thanks to the marketing if you have been following this movie. Another factor that keeps this movie from soaring to better heights is some of the other casting, which is baffling to say the least. Mila Kunis is disappointing as the younger sister Theodora, who of course becomes the Wicked Witch of the West. No flare in her part and just looks miserable through out the entire film. The biggest casting violation is James Franco who comes across as sleepy and somewhat creepy as the main character Oscar (Oz). He overacts in some parts and under acts in others and is with out a doubt the weakest member of the cast.While there is a lot to admire with this film, the problems it has (Mainly the story and the miscasting of Kunis and Franco) keep it from achieving a better grade from me.B-
__label__6 if You didn't Know that this Movie was Directed by Sam Raimi, You wouldn't Know that it was Directed by Sam Raimi. All of the Style is in the CGI. It has a Certain Eye Candy Appeal that also Lacks Warmth, Depth, and Anything Resembling a Soul.But here it is. A Mega-Million Dollar Spewing of the Plasticized, Industrial Art that has become the Standard for This Type of Thing. The Other Worldliness of the Superhero and other Fantasies. It can Work Very Well in Limited Quantities but when that's All there is, that's All there is. James Franco is a Movie Star (and some may question why) and Not an Actor, so He can by No Stretch of the Imagination Pull off the Charm Needed for the Wizard. He Grins and Smirks and All the Women On Screen, and in the Audience, are Supposed to be Charmed Out of Their Pants. Right.The Prequel has its Moments of Appeal, but Hardly Awe Inspiring. The Witches are Interchangeable Bores. The Flying Monkey is OK and the China Doll is the Most Memorable. There are a lot of Explosions and Fireballs to Pump the Sub-Woofers and Danny Elfman's Recognizable Style is Noticeable from the First Few Notes (did someone say repetition). Overall, the Movie can be Recommended in a Gaudy kind of Display with Enough Color to Capture the Eye, but the Movie is Not that Captivating. It is such a Mediocre Movie that Slightly Betrays the Source Material and is Another Expensive Extravaganza that is by Most Accounts Disappointing and Adequate at Best. That's not much for Disney and the Pile of Gold it put out for this Thing.
__label__6 Oz the Great and Powerful .. or maybe not so great, but still highly watchable.Franco plays the little man behind the curtain, while Kunis, normally a favourite of mine, appears to be stuck in that tornado. Neither manage to defy gravity but the rest of the cast were pleasant, especially Weisz - even with her Emperor-like green force lightning. It would have been a more visually stunning Oz had the effects been simplified. Conversely, the story lacked depth and with some rather clumsy dialogue (especially for Kunis), it was all perhaps a little too light and "Disney".Doesn't quite get the ruby slipper, but maybe 3 out of 5 wands.
__label__6 Okay. So I was excited for this film for quite some time now. Back in October or so when I first saw the trailer, I instantly wanted to see it. It's too bad that it was such a letdown. Don't get me wrong, the cinematics are gorgeous. The colors pop and everything is sharp and beautiful. But then the characters speak. The writing in this film is laughable, even during scenes that are meant to be taken seriously. James Franco and Mila Kunis just didn't please me either. The only two that really stood out for me were Michelle Williams (Glinda) and Rachel Weisz (Evanora). The film felt too rushed, especially in the beginning. When Oz and Theodora met, they literally fell in love within 5 minutes. When Oz "cheated" on her after the one hour they've known each other, that's when Theodora snaps. So basically the entire story of the wicked witch is based on a relationship that hadn't even lasted a day. To me, that can't be taken seriously.Also, the only action scene that took place didn't even make sense. The poppy field that put all of the flying monkeys to sleep was directly in front of Emerald City, yet somehow the witches were shocked when this occurred. But this could just be me. So if you're wanting to see it in theaters, I say go. I'm only saying this for the cinematics though. Because this film looks gorgeous on the big screen. Other than that, I say wait to Redbox it.
__label__6 .... and, to be fair, this was not my idea but the screenwriter's, since the last few minutes of the film reveal that this was a topic very much on his mind when he penned this script.OK OK, I get that the transition from comic book (graphic novel) to feature film is not easy, but art never is, really. And it has been done successfully. Look at Superman 2 with Chris Reeves. Look at Spiderman 2 with Toby MaGuire. More recently look at Superman Returns (flawed but still brilliant in parts) and even more recently than that, Captain America 2. What do all these films have in common? Humanity. Hope. Decency. That difficult blending of superpowers with those same quirks and oddities which make us human. What they lack -- every film above-named lacks -- is brutality for its own sake, gratuitous violence directed against the star (and, by analogy, the viewing audience) just to make them feel the pain. Yet, astonishingly, this trend is becoming the "new normal" in superhero films and no one seems to care, the fans just keep lapping it up. MAN OF STEEL was an abomination, as if the intent was to see how many office buildings you can bang to bits with Superman's head. Ditto Thor 2, ditto The Wolverine (borders on torture porn, that one); and finally, this "re-imagining" of Spidey where everything that can possibly go wrong in his day ... does go wrong. Including saving his gf.Is this entertainment?Seriously. C'mon folks, wake up and smell the stupid before all superhero films end up like this.
__label__6 Right off the bat I'm going to say that I didn't see the first film. Obviously I've heard from a lot of people saying that they need to see the first film before watching this one, seeing as this is a direct sequel to a nearly 30 year old cult sci-fi film. But, seeing that I didn't have time, I decided to watch the sequel anyway.Now keep in mind that Disney took a HUGE risk in making a sequel to a movie that is not very often talked about when it comes to movies as opposed to many blockbusters today. The first TRON had no famous franchise to speak of (apart from the real games inspired by it). Adding to the danger is the film's budget - reportedly between US$ 200 - 300 million. With that kind of money you'll wonder what exactly was Disney hoping for with this film.Nevermind the fact that the story is a bit unfocused and could be rounded up in a more polished way. Nevermind too that the fantastic world and great ideas aren't expanded upon some more, as well as the fact that the script could use a little bit more originality.Also, not forgetting some good (in Jeff Bridges' case, great as always as he plays two very different characters with perfect emotional resonance - proving that he still has the chops to carry a big movie) performances by the cast - with Garrett Hedlund showing great leading man potential and Olivia Wilde looking great and cute to boot. Michael Sheen, Beau Garrett and Bruce Boxleitner (apparently returning to his role from the first film, so it seems) all give good support.No sir-ee, what you pay for - and what you get in spades - are the special/visual effects. Goodness me, this is quite possibly the best special effects I've seen all year, and that's saying something. I have to admit though, the CGI that makes Jeff Bridges young look jarring, but that is overshadowed by the compelling, groundbreaking special/visual effects that really bring you into the cybernetic world. Who doesn't want to take a ride on one of those fantastic, futuristic vehicles? Who doesn't want those awesome light-cycles or one of those dueling/data discs? It is possible that, like "Avatar" a year ago, this film can be a game-changer for special/visual effects alone.It's a real treat for the eyes, and it's even better in 3D which is splendidly used to flesh out the dimensions and graphics of the cyber world bring you even deeper into the world instead of things merely flying out to you and post-production conversion like in SO many 3D movies (Note that in the 3D version, there's a disclaimer before the film starts, saying that parts of the film are filmed in both natural 2D and 3D as they way they should be. Just so you know, this shows that the filmmakers care for what they want to give you).Very ambitious architect-and-designer-turned-first-time-filmmaker Joseph Kosinski hit a home run with this film, crafting an extraordinary and spellbinding world of escapism that looks slick, stylish and extremely cool to watch. Kosinski and the production team fill the cyber world with heaps of imagination and the result is what you see on screen. And here I thought Hollywood would recycle certain design patterns (plot patterns still need work though). Kosinski is a truly visionary filmmaker that one really has to keep an eye on.The production design is on par with the special effects, it is nothing short of spectacular and perfect. The cinematography which is big and wide and best of all NOT shaky allows you to savor every moment of SFX goodness. The superb sound effects serve to complement the visuals and the electronic world, and all for the better. Daft Punk's varying but atmospheric electronic/orchestral score all but suits the film's mood perfectly with its techno beats and soaring string during moments.Overall, this is perhaps a fine way to end the blockbuster season of 2010, and this is a definite must watch for all looking for an escape. The special effects alone are worth the price of TWO movie tickets, and with that I say, give this one a try, even if you haven't seen the first one. It aims to entertain and to dazzle the audience, and it succeeds brilliantly. Excuse me while I rent the first one now.Overall rating: 75/100
__label__6 I wouldn't call myself a TRON hardcore fan - I couldn't even crack a single message from their website during their "Flynn lives" viral campaign. Still, I know the movie perfectly well - I watched it on a movie theater when I was 8 years old, and I simply could never get out of my head the Recognizers and Lightcycles. I did master the Intellivision Tron Deadly Discs game, and the movie jump-started my love for all things computer related. I've watched the 20th Anniversary DVD and all the extras far more times than I can care to count. Guess I'm a TRON hardcore fan after all.I had mixed feelings about this movie. On one hand, a sequel to TRON made all the sense in the world - the original movie correctly predicted plenty of concepts that we now take as granted (the importance of a network, transports, I/O ports, security, etc.), so a sequel could do something similar. The script could basically write itself; back then, writers had one very difficult time trying to convey the inner workings of a computer network to an audience that was not as computer saavy as today (I'd say they sort of failed - TRON's weakest part was its story). Also, Disney couldn't just hire everyone; they weren't the powerhouse they are now, so they had to do with a scrappy team of visionary but amateurish people. Now, with $300 million dollars at their disposal, any actor they could ever want, all the technology they could ever need, Pixar and their creative team, how could Disney make Tron a failure?If you want an answer to this question, just go watch Tron: Legacy. It IS a failure.Why? I believe that TRON, as näive and silly as it sometimes is, has its heart in the right place - it always strives to tell a story, and uses technology as both a backdrop and a principal character. It's not technology for its own sake, either - the Lightcycles, tanks, recognizers, and the complete universe of Tron really made you feel as if you were somewhere else. It was completely unlike anything you had ever seen before. The art depicted on the movie was so striking I think it'll be remembered for years to come just because of it. And, as I said before, it correctly guessed at the future of computing. I wouldn't hesitate to call it a landmark movie, even considering all of its problems.Tron: Legacy is just another product Disney marketing decided to sell. It has no soul whatsoever. It's not innovative or inventive - most of the things you'll see come from other, more successful movies. Examples? The aerial pursuit near the end of the movie is lifted directly from Star Wars. The bar scene is a near perfect copy of the one on Matrix: Reloaded. The attack scenes are also lifted from the Matrix. Jeff Bridges is The Dude in a cybercostume. The rebel kid hacking computers seems like a copy of Terminator 2. At no time did I think to myself "this is something I had never seen in my life", as I did with Tron.Furthermore, there's no story of any importance whatsoever behind all the CGI. The original TRON dealt with issues we face nowadays in any computer network (well, at least if you are a geek and work with computers). Tron Legacy doesn't even make any effort to predict the future, or to point out at any risks technology poses to people in the XXIst century. It's a completely disposable product, which is sort of enjoyable when you watch it, but can't bear to think about it afterwards. Because it really makes no sense and it doesn't make any important points.I cannot believe Disney couldn't get someone - anyone - capable of writing a good script, hiring decent actors (Sam Flynn was TERRIBLE) and getting a director with at least a couple of good movies under his belt. The only reason why I give this movie a 7 is because, even though you've seen everything before, it does look great on the big screen. I especially liked CLU - I never noticed I was looking at CGI. Awesome technology.I'm completely positive this sequel will go down in history as others, such as Blues Brothers 2000, the Star Wars prequels, and Matrix: Revolutions as one of the worst ever made. Sad. It had so much potential it's incredible they actually blew it.
__label__6 Actually the headline of this review is an actual quote from TRON LEGACY, it's the only time I had to laugh in the movie, because it was exactly the same question I was asking myself.After watching the movie I can at least answer this question: A heartless and confusing movie that lacks a good script and tries to compensate with state of the art special effects.I can't complain about the visual effects. They're right on. But everything else isn't. And I'm not even a die hard Tron-Fan to begin with. It's not your usual "boohoo what have they done with one of my favorite movies" reviews. Although I expect Tron-Fans to be disappointed, as there is nothing of the old spirit left in this one.No the movie seems like a commercial for the video game. You don't connect to the characters, you don't really understand or care about the story. It has in no way that oppressive feeling, that you felt with the original. Instead it's just a bunch of random action sequences following each other, lots of cgi and slow-motion (seriously, it's almost 2011, how many more slow-mo-projectile-evasion do we need? if scary movie made fun of it, don't do it in your movie and still expect it to be somewhat cool). there are like dozens of scenes that will remind you of other flicks, like "the fifth element", "matrix" or "star wars". but while copying styles and plots of other movies, TRON LEGACY fails to deliver something own, something unique. And that's basically the exact opposite of what TRON once was. Tron what have you become? Considering the costs of this movie you have to wonder: Tron what could you have become, if someone would have been able to pen a good script and give this flick it's missing soul?!
__label__6 Espionage, assassinations, sabotage of renewable energy, propaganda, corporate cover-ups, media manipulation and The Mob...James Bond? Nope. Jason Bourne? Nope. Disney/Pixar's CARS 2. Wow. This movie wasn't at all what I was expecting. In the second serving of Lightning McQueen and his pals, they take their show to the international stage in a world championship race-off sponsored by oil-alternative manufacturer, Allinol. But turmoil behind the scenes pulls the gang into a world of spies, the Mob, Big Oil, evil German scientists and hit men. Now they have to save the world before it's too late. Oh, and they race too. The animation is amazing. Water, large balloons, backgrounds during races...pay attention because the quality of the graphics in this one are world-class. There are some goofy, funny moments and some nice one- liners for the older crowd. The themes of being true to yourself and bonds of friendship run strong throughout this film but it's the remainder of the message that worried me. There were non-stop put downs throughout and some other questionable topics. I was beginning to question the G rating when the villain ordered his henchmen to "kill" several other cars. Thinking back to the innocence and the good spirit of the first movie, I began to wonder how we got from there to here. Adventures in racing take a back-seat to the more mature plot of an espionage thriller. Looking around the theater, I could tell that kids younger than 4 or 5 were beginning to get lost. Even my ten-year-old had a hard time understanding the socio-political messages. On top of all that, I'd be willing to bet that Cars 2 is a contender for most guns, explosions and bullets fired in a G-Rated movie. This movie had much more violence than the first one.Aside from the appropriateness of the movie, it wasn't bad. All the likable characters from the first movie were back with bigger roles like 'Mater & Luigi and there were many new characters added that also brought their own personalities into the mix. To me, this was an espionage-thriller so the added bonus of some comedy made the movie move right along at a good pace. It was engaging for me, I enjoyed it, but the entire time I couldn't help but wonder why Disney/Pixar chose to tell this story through a kids movie.
__label__6 The best of Pixar's films have protagonists who are a small part of a very large world and are almost helpless against incredible odds - Toy Story, Wall-E, Finding Nemo etc. The protagonists of Cars are very big in a very small world, so do not play to the strengths of Pixar.However, being Pixar, they still make these films better than anyone else would have with the same material. Cars and Cars 2 are intelligently written and filled with more detail than you could comfortably fit into a single screening.This movie is not so much a sequel to the first as an affectionate James Bond parody that happens to be set in the Cars universe. Whereas the original Cars was thematically slow and patient, this one deliberately takes things in the exact opposite direction. Whether anyone will prefer the first film or the second is entirely their preference, and it is wrong to say that one is better than the other. Each film has its own appeals and drawbacks.The main weakness of this film is a failure to create any kind of sympathy for the characters. They are not alone, they are not lost, they have friends and allies and the resources to get out of any situation. It never feels like there is any real danger, as there is with the Toy Story films. Whereas the first film had enough focus on character development to compensate for this, the subplot about the tested friendship between McQueen and Mater seems especially insubstantial here.Nevertheless, I feel like this is an enjoyable installment in the franchise, never letting your attention wander and always ready with a clever idea. They have demonstrated that they are willing to go in entirely new directions with this world - maybe if they make a third film, they can make something truly worthy of the Pixar name?If I were rating this in comparison to other Pixar films, my score would be lower... but scoring this as a film on its own, I think it is deserving of between five and seven stars.
__label__6 Cars 2 is the Pixar movie you think you hate but it is actually kind of okay. I wasn't "very disappointed" as a lot of other people were, but I wasn't amazed. The animation is great but the story was poor. It had all of this spy nonsense and Mater was the protagonist. That's what I didn't like about the movie. The Tokyo race was a lot of fun despite those "crashes" from the cars. I'll say that it was an "average" movie.
__label__6 I know I'm WAY late on this by over a year. Overall I liked it. Loved a lot of the new characters, especially Finn McMissile and the arrogant Italian car guy (whatever his name was). Liked Raoue Carole as well. I just had two major pet peeves with it: it focused on Mater. Mater already had his own little spin-off of "Mater's Tall Tales" which I love. A movie centered on him just didn't do it for me. Had it been on Lightning (like the first one) or any other character I would have been okay. It may have to do with the fact that I'm no Mater fan. My second beef was Doc Hudson wasn't in it. I know why, I understand wanting to honor Paul Newman (whom I adored), hate to sound callous, but the show goes on. If he ended up with a different voice then so be it. Better yet, he could have been in it for a few seconds, and just not say anything at all. Fillmore's voice actor passed and he was still in it so to me there was no excuse not to have Doc in it. My two cents, of course.
__label__6 As someone who's followed Green Lantern a little bit of a decent amount (not big but fairly decent, for DC character), I liked some things about the movie; but I definitely say that it could have been made better, both for casual fans, non-GL fans or hard core ones.Good points... 1. It stuck fairly consistently with the mythos of the origin and Planet OA; 2. Ryan Reynolds did decently as Hal Jordan (though he fits more with the Kyle Rayner/Guy Gardner type than Jordan) -- but I wish he was more serious; though non-GL fans couldn't care less about this; 3. Blake Lively was eye candy; super hot, but not much else; 4. Green Lanterns Tomar Re, Kilowog and Abin Sur were damn good but didn't have enough screen time to be significant; 5. Mark Strong's Sinestro was excellent! 6. Hector Hammond was well portrayed by Peter Saarsgard (though it lacked a proper finish) 7. Good supporting cast from Tim Robbins (Sen. Hammond) to Angela Bassett (Amanda Waller); 8. Green Lantern's costume was wicked; 9. Visual/CGI effects were pretty goodBad Points... > It tried to fit too much into one movie, moving back and forth from Earth and outer space/OA, thus there was no proper flow... (like when there was a build up of momentum, things go slow or boring; or from serious to funny without proper pacing); too many stories were crammed into one movie > Humor was misplaced at times (good peg is Thor which had it in the flow rather than contrived/forced) > Parallax looked comical; scary at times but only a couple of times > Like Iron Man 2, I wish the fight scenes were so much more; they spent too much on the set-up that the fights were short and could have been so much more and elaborate. > Some scenes and even some characters were not necessary (Hal's best friend, even some scenes with Blake's Carol Ferris were not needed); they should have added more action insteadSummary, visual effects, actors, GL base story good. But the way the writers and director put things together were a mixture of various plots and subplots crazy glued into one movie for pure entertainment. Kids will enjoy it, but adults likely will not. This is a summer of superheroes, with 3 down and one more to go (well, technically 5 with Transformers if you're thinking comic book stories), so it's quite impossible not to compare them to each other.The director is known to direct good flicks like Goldeneye and Casino Royale (two good movies), but I wish he did more; studied more, had split up more stories to be more single- minded and not work on a cluttered material.
__label__6 Green Lantern is, without a doubt, one of the greatest comic book series of all time, with great creativity and originality filling the pages of the comics. Now, a live-action film has been released and it truly captures that creativity. The film is centered around the character of Hal Jordan, a pilot who fears failure since his father's death, who crashed after a malfunction in his plane's engine. Hal is chosen to join a galactic peace-keeper force known as the Green Lantern Corp, after one of its finest members was killed; Abin-Sur. But to be a Lantern one must be without fear, and Hal believes the ring made a mistake in choosing him, as he is afraid of his destiny.Many people have said that Ryan Reynolds was a bad choice for Hal Jordan, but he truly wasn't; he captured Hal's fear, courage, and cocky attitude perfectly. Plus, Martin Campbell was a great choice as the director (but Zack Snyder would have been a good choice too). He knew when to have action and when to give detailed story. Another thing, everyone is complaining about 'too much' CGI, but the thing is; how do you re-create a sci-fi story into a movie where a galactic "police force" travels the universe to protect its inhabitants from true evil? You have to use a lot of CGI to capture the sci-fi settings and creatures that are part of the story as well, because even robotics can't cover it all. But overall, Green Lantern is a great origin story, building up the story of the Green Lanterns and Hal Jordan's destiny to become a Lantern as well. Don't miss this incredible comic-adaptation 9/10 Stars***
__label__6 They say that if you've seen one superhero movie, you've seen them all. That's not entirely true, but if every superhero movie were like Green Lantern, then it would be true. Green Lantern is your typical superhero movie, so if you've seen quite a few superhero movies (like I have), you'll know what's ahead. This is the problem with Green Lantern, it's too predictable and does nothing new to make it stand out from the crowd. That's not necessarily a bad thing though, but it's not a good thing either. There are 3 good things in this movie. One, Peter Sarsgaard as Hector Hammond is delightfully hammy and fun to watch. Two, the SFX are cool and what they do with the Green Lantern ring is also cool, and Parallax's design suits its evilness. Third, the fight between Hal and Parallax is the best scene in the movie. Other than those things, it's average. If you've never seen a superhero movie and/or are a Green Lantern fan, this movie is worth seeing. Everyone else should see X-Men: First Class.
__label__6 Considering that he's part of the dreaded "MTV Generation" of filmmakers, McG is surprisingly old-school when it comes to his framing: no jumpy Michael Bay antics or hypercutting Paul Greengrass mimicries. He is a far more organic director, letting the action sequences play out naturally. It's his execution that's at fault: the action itself. He piles explosions on top of other explosions and machines slamming into other machines, backed by the deafening cues of Danny Elfman's score, and I'm pretty sure Christian Bale had a yelling stipulation written into his contract. Everything's loud, intense, bombastic. You can't accuse McG of copying Jim Cameron's first two flicks — or even Jonathan Mostow's goofy third — but you're left wishing he'd perfected his own style before tackling such an ambitious project and producing, as a result, a frustratingly passable action-thriller.McG cites Cormac McCarthy's The Road as an influence on his movie, and it shows. The world is bleak and starved and seems to have a post-fallout hue cast over it. Yet somehow the female lead, Moon Bloodgood, always looks like she's just gotten done applying makeup and iron curling her hair. (Not to mention, based on her outfits, she must have found the only mall outlet that hadn't yet been raided by pillagers.)Bloodgood is a great example of the movie's ill tendencies — sad to say, she personifies them. I've seen her interviewed and she's as likable as could be, but she's an awful actress, and her entire role could have been excluded from Terminator Salvation leaving in its absence a tightened film and less predictable subplot, which is this: the cyborg-who-doesn't-know-he's-a-cyborg, Marcus Wright (Sam Worthington), falls for her. And she falls for him. And like Sarah Connor at the end of T2, she is forced to confront the spiritual conundrum of what truly separates man from machine.But here's the thing: isn't that such a cliché? If done well, it could be as touching as T2 was; if done poorly, it can be a disastrous reminder of Short Circuit 2. Unfortunately, McG hasn't a clue how to handle his characters' interactions, and so we get very heavy-handed intermissions featuring Worthington saying some pretty cringe-worthy stuff. One campfire sequence is so unintentionally funny that I truly felt sorry for McG, in the same way you'd feel compassion for a young boy naively attempting to, I don't know, shave or something. At first it's cute, like, Oh, look, he doesn't realize that he's too young to shave. Then it's like, Oh, crap, he just cut his neck.But I'm under-selling the movie's positive attributes, which are the action sequences. Too loud, maybe, but a whole lot of fun. The special effects on the Terminators are solid, and McG throws in plenty of nods to the older films without all of them seeing too forced (we even find out how the adult Connor from T2 got his scar — a level of detail proving that McG really is a fanboy himself), and Anton Yelchin, who I despised as a precocious kid shrink in 2007's Charlie Bartlett, is fantastic in the role of Kyle Reese, effectively channeling Michael Biehn from the first movie.Audiences will connect with Marcus because he represents the viewers. We're thrust into this new world just as suddenly as he is, and in his bewilderment and confusion, we find our parallel. With Avatar's release later this year, Worthington will most likely be the Next Big Thing, and is essentially - in this film, anyway - what Heath Ledger was to Christian Bale in The Dark Knight.And so we arrive at Bale: he plays John Connor. But here's the thing about John Connor: he's really not that interesting. That's an obvious flaw, perhaps: if you woke up every morning knowing you were the saviour of the human species, would you be a fun guy to hang around with? Probably not. In that regard, Bale nails Connor: intense, passionate and dry without an ounce of self-reference or levity. He never steps back and winks at us, and even his brief dialogue retread ("I'll be back") feels legitimate, spared of Arnie's corny delivery from T3. This guy means business. That's what you're left with, but without a compelling enough story, who really cares? Bale will be massacred by overzealous blog culture critics who've been waiting for months to crack jokes about his leaked on-set rant, but he extracts every ounce of potential from the character and - to that extent - gives a fantastic performance. The bottom line is that John Connor as a religious figure in the Terminator universe has no room for expansion, and unless McG were to fundamentally change the dynamics of the character, a post-Judgment Day Connor is not going to connect with audiences. That's precisely why Cameron never envisioned taking the series this far: the impending doom of Judgment Day in the original series always felt far more intimidating than the reality of it. The brief glimpse of nuclear holocaust in the first two movies was eerie and scary because of its fleeting nature; keeping in tune with his religious allegories, Judgment Day was to the Terminator universe what Revelations is to fundamentalists: that big, frightening end for humanity that we must all live in awareness of. Seeing it unfold kind of takes away the charm, you know? So although Terminator Salvation is somewhat competently made and an entertaining enough action spectacle, giving this much away just feels a bit self-defeating. What if the End of Days occurred tomorrow, Jesus revealed himself unto us all and the remaining human beings left on earth were forced into resistance camps? Would anyone still be reading the Bible?
__label__6 The atmosphere that James Cameron and Stan Winston had created for the first 2 films in the franchise is what really hit me and still does to this day. I think that was the key component along with consistency and approach that gave the Terminator film it's unique style and attractiveness. It's metallic-blue overlay, infused with creepy whines of music and heart pounding edge of your seat suspense was what really created this secondary reality if not for only an hour long. It made us have a connection to these characters. A sense of believability in what was really going on. But it was those elements that were able to harness the inner workings of this dark dreamland. In essence the first two Terminators were projected nightmares in a sense, as if you were running and running, but no how fast you ran, the shadowy figure on your toes just keeps closing in. THAT is what made those films so captivating.Now these elements in one way or another were tried in this newest installment of the franchise. I see it as I've heard before as a "hit and miss" movie in which it got some key features to play out in the film, but lacked that essential tone T1 and T2 romantically portrayed.I have talked in lengths with individuals on why this film didn't quite hit all of it's projected(we hope) targets and I haven't really heard a clear and analyzed answer. Some say it was the amount of sub-plots that were involved, the lack of plot, the empty character development, the slight cheesy factor, and or the overall weak story and unnecessary additions to the Terminator franchise. Although these all valid arguments to say the least and I would agree on them full heartily, I don't see it as the culprit of the problem here of why this film did not life up to it's expectations.I think, like I said above in the first paragraph, that it was the direction the film was taken in perspective to it's overall tone and mood. God bless his soul, Stan Winston. For if he were alive I think we would have seen a more polished version of what we have now witnessed. I also think it was a bad part on McG for giving the O.K on the revised Terminator theme by veteran composer Danny Elfman. I don't know why in the hell the screened audiences gave the thumbs up on that one. Another issue of course is that most of the scenes were in broad day-light. I understand that McG wanted to get a different take on the war, but I don't think this was pulled off in any respects to what James Cameron had in mind for the war.(Shouldn't the sky be filled with pollution and dark particle manner from the nuclear explosions creating an ever-dark wasteland?) This was CRUCIAL and they blew it. I don't see why they didn't go with more night scenes. It is one of the strongest representative thematic elements portrayed in the Terminator 1 & 2.(I am not even going to mention T3 because of the ridiculous amount of mistakes made) The Rating: A main point that needs to be addressed for sure is the film's PG-13 rating. Of course they did this to appeal to a larger demographic of movie-goers, but they did it in expense of the true grit and bones that T1 and T2 had. I don't see why a Terminator film should be even considered for a PG-13 rating. Anything lower than an "R" rating does not do the title justice. The series is called Terminator for a reason...They are killing machines. THAT'S IT. I think that this is one of the biggest insults to the die-hard community of Terminator fans everywhere.There is no room for Mediocrity in trying to follow up after T2: Judgment Day. Lets hope and pray that us as an online community hold the next bunch of crazies accountable for their creative actions for the next installment of the franchise.
__label__6 I haven't read the book so I'm not coming from viewing this as an adaptation but rather a stand-alone film. (From what I've heard it's pretty far from the original source anyway.) First off, a zombie film watered-down and free from blood and gore? That idea alone would lose a big slice (pun-intended) of hardcore fans in the audience. How does it hold your attention then? By stringing you along on the edge with tension and suspense from beginning to end. It does a pretty good job of maintaining this grip even without the standard horror elements of slasher flicks.Brad Pitt easily slips into the role of a family man desperate to keep his family safe. It's not difficult to root for him and share in his urgency. His charm certainly makes up for and saves the movie from its flaws (and there are many!) not the least of which are its gaping plot holes and loose direction.The audience in the theater seemed to have fun screaming along and allowing themselves to be entertained and toyed with. There are a handful of funny scenes (whether intentional or not). If you're willing to quit analyzing the movie like a critic, you'll probably start enjoying it.After all, when did a zombie movie ever have to be "BELIEVABLE"?
__label__6 I've listed that this review contains spoilers, but I haven't included anything that the trailer hasn't already given away.And the that's my main problem with "World War Z" The Trailer. If you've seen the trailer you've seen the movie. It literally shows everything that happens in the movie completely destroying any suspense that might have been had. "World War Z" isn't a conventional movie with a flowing plot line that builds to a dramatic conclusion. It's more like a bunch of individual parts laid out in a not so very straight line, and strung together loosely by a single character. I don't have much of a problem with that, or the facts the Zombies aren't of the undead kind, slow moving kind like they were in the source novel. But rather the rabid, sprinting, quick turning kind like in "28 days later" Brad Pit is good and takes the roll seriously. The CGi is top notch, and the movie is well made. The problem I had is that I new exactly what was going to happen, before it happened, because they showed it in the stupid trailer. Literally, every single cool action shot that's in the movie they showed in the trailer. Every single plot point. Even the dialog scenes. I knew the jest of what was going to be said because they showed the important parts in the trailer! I kept waiting for the extended version but it never came. There's no suspense. (I know there's Zombies on the plane and that Brad Pitt blows a hole in the side sucking them all out, crashing the plane, because they show it in the trailer!) That's just one example of a long list of scenes that you totally know what's fixing to happen because, well... You've seen it already. This is one movie I wish I could have gone in completely blank. Not having read the book, not having seen the trailer, and I think I would have enjoyed it a lot more.
__label__6 Pros: Epic scope: This is without a doubt the biggest zombie movie ever made. The exact budget of the film is unknown, but due to its prolonged and troubled production some have estimated the movie cost as much as 250 million dollars to make. And the film-makers really make sure you're aware of how expensive the movie would've been to make, with a number of staggering shots featuring thousands and thousands of zombies swarming all over each other. The movie earns its title, given the fact that it is truly a zombie movie on a global scale. Brad Pitt: He's very good in this movie, and is definitely one of the best things about the film. He makes for a compelling and likable hero who has to rely more on his intelligence than physical power. He's no superhero in this film, and his vulnerability and "everyday-man" nature keeps him relatable and likable.Action scenes: As mentioned before, there's a ton of zombies in this movie. And yes, a lot of them are CGI, which I personally don't have a problem with because there were so many it's unlikely they could've done a lot of these scenes with actual extras portraying the zombies. The hordes of zombies allow for some truly spectacular action scenes on a large scale, all of which I'd rather not talk about in too much detail, because the zombie/action scenes are really the best part of the film, so it's definitely best not to ruin the scenes by giving you too much of an idea of what to expectUse of the word "zombie": This didn't necessarily make the film better, but it was just interesting to see the word "zombie" used frequently by the film's characters. The word "zombie" has been treated for so long as a clichéd term in zombie films that it's now kind of refreshing to see it used so honestly and openly in a serious zombie film. Cons: Lack of gore: Now don't get me wrong, I don't need blood and guts in every single movie I watch. But with zombie films, gory violence is a necessity. You need to see zombies getting ripped apart to emphasise how they are literally the "living dead," and you need to see humans die graphic deaths to reinforce how much of a threat the zombies can be. But this film wants to appeal to pretty much anyone aged 10 and up so Brad Pitt and friends can get more money, so of course we get very little blood, plus no on-screen guts, severed limbs, or exploding heads. Shaky cam: This kind of ties in with the lack of gore; it's like the cameraman is shying away from the more graphic moments (it's The Hunger Games all over again). The shaky cam's only really noticeable in the film's first half hour though, while the zombie outbreak is just beginning, so it's not a huge problem. Still a little bothersome though.Unfulfilling ending: This movie does end in an abrupt fashion, and kind of left me wanting more. It ends very suddenly, and I kind of thought to myself- "really? That's it?" The biggest action scene in the movie occurs about halfway through the film, and the final zombie confrontation was fairly quiet and low-key, which just felt a bit off to me. That being said, the jarringly sudden ending could be seen as a good thing, as it demonstrated that the movie went by fairly quickly. It's just under two hours long, but the final scene honestly felt as though the film was at about the 80-minute mark. But still, the ending was a little unsatisfying, so I ultimately see the ending as a con.Unintentionally funny zombies: Zombies can be funny, and zombie movies can be part-comedy and still be great zombie movies. Shaun of the Dead and ZombieLand are both very funny movies that also manage to be pretty good legitimate zombie films (they don't exclusively poke fun at the zombie genre). George A. Romero worked some great satire into 1978′s Dawn of the Dead, by comparing the zombies in the film's mall to the mindless, braindead consumers who inhabited the mall pre-zombie apocalypse. World War Z didn't feel like it was meant to have much comedy in it with its serious tone and gritty aesthetic, yet at times I found myself laughing at the way the film's zombies expressed exaggerated twitchy movements, and the manner in which more than a few of them chattered their teeth repeatedly in a cartoonish manner.Slight lack of tension: The movie lacks some much needed suspense because it's basically Brad Pitt saving the world himself. Maybe if Pitt's character had a few allies forming like a "rag-tag squad" or something, and they went around battling zombies as a group, it would've made things more intense and involving, as a few of them would inevitably die along the way. I don't know, a few more well-developed side characters would've gone quite a long way in making me more invested in the film's events.So there's my thoughts on this film. It's a mixed bag, but ultimately I'd recommend it. It's worth seeing at the cinema just for those spectacular action scenes, and simply so you can see the sheer scale of the biggest budgeted zombie film of all time. It's flawed as hell though, so go in with moderate expectations. It could be a whole lot better, but ultimately the film's still pretty decent, and a good one to experience on the big screen. It's certainly a fine summer blockbuster, but it's unlikely that the film will ever achieve a "classic status."
__label__6 World War Z is a zombie outbreak movie that supposedly bases itself on the amazing book of the same name by Max Brooks. What this movie truly is, is a shamefully mediocre attempt to create a movie that appeals to the widest audience possible. Pee established fan base from the book? Check. Star power (this is Brad Pitt)? Check. Focuses on intensity rather than horror and gore to not alienate non zombie fans? Check. Safe, young PG 13 rating? Check. All the makings are here because this is what the big Hollywood studio wanted. Despite the fact this movie doesn't resemble the book at all, it appears that those attached to make this movie tried to make a decent movie such as the visually interesting director Marc Foster who wanted to make a movie with a message which would emulate the tone the book was going for. However, the big studio disliked this and demanded rewrites and re-shooting that damaged the relationship between the director and Brad and results in a quick, intense action movie that lacks the character development and messages it needed to be a truly memorable movie because almost every one of those scenes were cut so much to the point that central characters get barley any lines. While the action scenes are intense and enjoyable on their own and Marc foster adds style to the lack of substance but its just not enough to save this movie. While it is better than it had any right to be thanks to Marc, it needs more and it lacks in crucial substance. However from the reviews and box office reports it appears Hollwood has succeeded in creating a successful marketable movie that everyone will eat up and it will be too late when we all get the nasty aftertaste.....
__label__6 I went into this movie with high expectations so that may be the reason why I wasn't at all impressed with this film. The action was bland, short and just seemed like everything we've already seen before. The truly only great part of this movie was the scene with quicksilver and that was a really short piece of the movie. Once that scene was over the rest of the movie became this huge bore. I go to a movie like this with the usual expectation of seeing something "new".. well I was let down.The majority of the movie was completely boring. There were only a few scenes of very mediocre action and it just seemed like they did not put a lot of effort into this movie.
__label__6 The timeline of the X-Men movie franchise has been troubling ever since the supposedly conclusion of the series, X-Men: The Last Stand. The studio continues to make more of these by telling each of the mutants' origin stories, but it wasn't quite a success due to leading to a grope of making two awful Wolverine movies and a main prequel that doesn't know where to go afterwards. A solution to fix this is simply time-travel. With all the space time continuum and stuff, it finally has the chance to amend the universe and unhappen the unwanted events of the last movies. In that way, X-Men: Days of Future Past triumphs. The movie itself does need to be a little economical in its exposition, but as a blockbuster it is quite a solid entertainment.The plot isn't actually a big of an adventure as it sounds. This fact may blind the audience by the vast amount of references from the past films, astounding action scenes, and extended character work. Take all of that away, you'll just get a breezy little mission that just walks in to historic periods and places. Not saying this is a bad thing; the action scenes are in fact a huge benefit of providing real momentum, and the pathos of the main characters are also worth exploring. It's a real joy just seeing these mutants get back together again. But the weakness here is it's too drawn to nostalgia. Don't get me wrong, it is fun remembering the best parts of the old X-Men, and as a time travel movie, this is absolutely essential, but only few become helpful to the plot. The rest of them is just a fan service which doesn't always elevate the overall story.Then again, the real pleasures are the basic appeal of the series. Most X-Men movies are usually more focused on Wolverine than anyone else, and this sequel might do the same. Surprisingly, it was able to juxtapose each of the major character's arc. The young Professor X and Mystique remain the most intriguing among, the script doesn't always give enough detail to it, but their actors bring the gravity they deserve. The action, once again, is pretty well done. Besides of the future scenes, it provides more than just explosions. There is a real direction going on to these sequences and the camera perfectly shows its every action which makes it totally entertaining.X-Men: Days of Future Past stands as perfect as a fan service. What exactly matters in this installment is to erase what was messed up by the last few movies by taking the concept of time-travel, butterfly effect, etc. The whole film is still too burdened by the past which sometimes hinders the plot, it would have been a much compelling movie if it goes deeper within its intriguing subtext. In the end, the film still succeeds in their goal, and it is a simple one which comic book fans will definitely appreciate. Therefore congratulations, this sequel just saved this franchise's future.
__label__6 In this retelling of Jack and the Beanstalk, the title character and a runaway princess are thrust into the sky when vines sprouting from the magic beans vault Jack's cabin into the sky. A race of giants exiled there by the power of a magic crown plots to return below and recapture the human kingdom. The King sends a rescue party of his knights and the princess's evil fiancé to rescue the princess, and the evil prince uses the magical crown in an attempt to seize the power of the giants to take over the kingdom. It was refreshing to find a non ironic, non meta straightforward telling of this story, with some elements of charm and humor. The 3D is fairly unspectacular, although there are great sequences, such as the collapse of the vine which causes catastrophic damage below. The body count, for a family film, is quite high, surpassing some of the later Harry Potter movies. It is also notable that there are virtually no females in either the giants' or human's realm. The cast is fine, and Nicholas Hoult makes a fine Jack, and brings more life and personality to the role than he did earlier this year with "Warm Bodies."Most elements of the film work quite well and it has the potential to work alongside dark family fare like "The Never Ending Story" or "The Dark Crystal."
__label__6 As I left the theater after watching this movie I tried to put my finger on the reason why I felt so underwhelmed by what I had just watched. Perhaps it was the overly simplistic video game plot (save the princess), the lack of a well defined villain, or the lackluster development of any of the characters. In the end I couldn't precisely point to any single issue that derailed my ability to really enjoy this viewing. What this movie really lacked was the ability to engage the audience on any meaningful level whether it be emotional, mental or otherwise. In short, it's soulless. I don't know exactly what gives a movie its soul but I know when it's missing and this movie, unfortunately, was quite lacking.
__label__6 This is a movie with a simple story, not the best acting performances and giant visual effects. So if you're up for some eye-candy and want to give your thinking brain a rest, go for it; but like I've heard from others, pick the best and biggest 3-D screen in town. Keep in mind however that this is no Life of Pi in terms of effects either.The story is the clichéd young boy-princess-evil others trio, without much added creativity in terms of dialogues and I wasn't impressed by Nicholas Holt's acting skills either and there were some gross sequences involving the Giants, in case you like that stuff but apart from the effects I do not think it has much to offer.
__label__6 The Great Gatsby tells a lot of stories and gains more themes so on. This new adaptation takes a different direction and unique scale. The experience feels familiar to other Baz Luhrmann film, which means it's quite dazzling by his fabulous style and creating an over-whimsical version of the setting. The easiest thing to say is it's fun as a Baz Luhrmann film, but it kind of glosses over the story too much. While it's generally stunning, it didn't dig deeper within the context. The Great Gatsby is fascinating enough but it could have been much grander than what it was shown on screen.The film did follow the book, it takes a lot of time exploring its setting, characters, and conflict, but explores only little on what's beneath it. The Great Gatsby actually has something more than just romance, but the film's storyline ambition mostly lies in there. The film mostly glosses at the points that suppose to provide more depth to the story which makes the possible satires of the period feels missing. But the film still has plenty of life. Beginning with the performances, Leonardo DiCaprio is definitely the kind of actor who can perfectly play the role and he did standout to be the better Gatsby than anyone else who portrayed the role. Tobey Maguire did what he usually do in movie but he is fine enough as Nick Carraway, same goes to Carey Mulligan as Daisy. Joel Edgerton steals all of his scenes by his intense performance as Tom Buchanan.The direction is spectacular however. Baz Luhrmann still perfectly uses his own style to tell the story. There are many extravagantly magnificent sequences, especially the party scenes that works amazingly even in 3D. The style really shows how ambitious this film will be and it transcends the scale which makes it wholly an interesting cinematic ride. Around with visual pleasures, there's the soundtrack and music score also keeping things groovy.It's hard to deny how enjoyable the experience is, but it could have also taken a higher perspective to the actual story. To be much fair, it did a remarkable job bringing it to the screen in a spectacular way with a cast who are very enthusiastic. While the visuals flare endlessly, the storytelling makes the overall film gripping. It's somewhat disappointing how some of its morality was left as a background even though people will say it's not necessary to take it seriously, but everyone has their own aspect on reading the book. The Great Gatsby is not as satisfying as it deserves but it manages to be incredibly eye candy and thoroughly entertaining.
__label__6 I watched this film with a sort of tender curiosity.It was deliciously excessive and exaggerated, as expected from a Baz Luhrmann production. Leonardo DiCaprio made Gatsby his own ("Old spor'!") while retaining a feeling of familiarity. The screenplay was a faithful adaptation and even helped me understand some of the novel's themes more clearly. And though you'd think hearing dubstep during the Jazz Age would be jarring, the soundtrack worked very well.But I couldn't love it. And it's (mostly) Tobey Maguire's fault.Gatsby loomed so large in the original story that it's not hard to forget all about Nick. But it can be argued, and often is, that it was Nick and not Gatsby who was the protagonist of the novel. Fitgerald's story, told from Nick's first-person point of view, was only as good as Nick's narration; Gatsby was only so great because Nick viewed him that way.Unfortunately, Maguire fell completely flat in his role as narrative guide. There was always so much else going on and so much of Luhrmann's dreamscape to absorb that Maguire seemed to get lost in it all. And — with him — so did the viewer. Without a strong presence from Maguire, Nick was relegated from having a role as interpreter of events to being just another character (and a rather unimportant one at that).Luhrmann tried to maintain Nick's narrative frame by having him tell the story — first as a patient speaking to his doctor at a sanitarium, then as a writer trying to explain his grief through prose. But those scenes came across (at best) as heavy-handed expository or (at worst) as Maguire's uninspired take on an abridged audiobook version of "The Great Gatsby."I wanted to love this film. I really did. It had so many wonderful qualities. But with no Nick (only a Tobey) to help make sense of the people and events, "angry, and half in love with {it}, and tremendously sorry, I turned away."
__label__6 Prince of Persia: the Sands of Time is supposed to be based on the video games of the early 2000s, and it does have some of the elements from the games: parkour, time-shifting elements, etc., but the film version of the PS2 classic is closer to an average sword and sandal adventure than the magical, sprawling world of the video game.Prince of Persia tells the story of Prince Dastan, an Aladdin-type orphan thief turned Arabian hero, played by Jake Gyllenhaal, as he attempts to stop the evil vizier, played by Ben Kingsley, from destroying the world and capture the affection of Gemma Arterton's beautiful princess Tamina. There is more to the story, but it all amounts to the basic "stop the bad guy, get the girl" story. That's not always a bad thing though, and Prince of Persia does add some clever time reversing tricks to the plot thanks to a mystical dagger that runs on the sands of time. However, with the exception of a back story regarding a ostrich farmer played by the always wonderful Alfred Molina, Prince of Persia's story is fairly strait forward.Still, this outline could've made a truly great film, but Prince of Persia: Sands of Time fumbles some key elements. For one, the set design and the locations don't have the same type of flair as the game at all. Where the film could've taken us to enchanted gardens and vast temples, it sticks close to the typical cityscapes and mountain ranges. While some of the sets and locations in the film are impressive, it seems like a big missed opportunity to create a truly unique Arabian world. The other thing holding Prince of Persia back from reaching the heights of its video game inspiration is the action. The Prince of Persia series of games is built on parkour and sword combat. The movie has a fair amount of parkour and of course there is some fighting, but it all seems small-scale. The parkour is simple and practical instead of daring and dramatic like it is in the games. The same goes for the fighting. In the games it is epic, in the film it's kind of boring.Don't get me wrong, Prince of Persia is a fun movie. The action is fast yet cohesive, the sets and costume give off a nice Arabian flair, and Alfred Molina breaks up the stiffness of the main characters nicely. It's simple, mindless Jerry Bruckheimer produced fun, but considering its source material, it could've been great. For fans of classic sword and sandal adventures it is well worth a watch, but fans of the game might be disappointed.67/100
__label__6 I tend to feel Prince of Persia the movie owed me a watchable story, after paying 140 Baht(more than average in Thai cinemas) and two unremarkable hours in the digital cinema. I also tend to doubt the possibility this movie will ever speak to you with any messages, should them be fairy tale messages or serious politic messages. That being said, Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time is quite a disappointment from a bunch of names I admired.The Parkour sequences were fun to watch, so was the siege sequence, but if you have watched the trailer, you've seen them all. It's never really captivating. You got eye candies, just like you've got Dastan and Princess Tamina, but you've also got terrible performances and disturbing character background illustration. That part that talked about Tamina's coronation as the Sand prophet was so hilariously bad that I almost laughed out. What was more hilarious was her character's development after the flashback, that Tamina transformed magically from a cursing,sarcastic-talking person into a religiously holified person......I guess the movie's intrinsically bad because of the script, that they tried to please all the demographic groups so they had to forgo all the valid, culture-identifying messages. The CGI landscapes of ancient Persia spent many millions, yet never succeeded in giving you anything material. The story had Dastan started in the slum, and granted him a heart of gold that cemented sibling love as the only thing that's closest to a "soul" in this hollow story. Unfortunately, the most emotional role who also provided the best fighting sequence is not our prince, but some "knife thrower".I gave the movie 6/10 out of the respect for Ben Kinsley having very dark eyeliner, and the final act that somehow managed to save this movie. What I like to talk more about is the potential it wasted in this great context. With human dreams to go back in time to fix mistakes, sands as the symbol of infinite bleakness/lifelessness, exotic locations with exotic tales, POP the movie could have told you a story, favorably in a fable style, just like the original games. Yet it misused the knife of time, made the prince an underachiever in almost every remarkable aspects in the original game, and tell you craps like "some souls are bound beyond time". Time-traveling in a fantasy context was great, at least in Groundhog Day, The Girl Who Leapt Through Time, and the Sands of Time games.For the record, The Two Thrones gave you great opportunities to recognize and reflex on your own dark sides, and suggested you to choose the way of repent rather than the way of chasing shadows. Are mainstream audiences really so secular that they can't even stand fables with a bit biblical touch? Or are they only being awed enough to respect some environmentalism because Avatar had awesome visuals? I doubt it, and I strongly believe someone can make a much-better POP movie that is really epic.
__label__6 I don't expect much from movies like this one except for a good time. For me this means a good looking movie, likable characters and short sentimental bits.The movie delivers these. It would have been a treat if the plot was a bit more original, the solutions not quite so simplistic (**MAJOR SPOILER** Dastan just turns back time and everything is alright?! Even the dead are gotten back!) and the conversations had a bit more wit, but it doesn't do any good to dwell on these things. I enjoyed the fast pace and even the humour provided by Sheik Amar worked. I'm not an expert on special effects but the fight sequences looked pretty good to me and these were quite frequent.Jake Gyllenhaal makes a charming action hero. There is a certain honesty about his face that makes Dastan more real. Gemma Arterton sounded a bit wooden at times but that may be the script's fault, I also liked Seso, it's a pity that he died, oh wait...Ultimately I felt safe watching this movie, that I wouldn't have to sit through dizzying plot twists, explicit sex scenes, gruesome bloodbaths or lame acting and boring scenes. The movie stretches to do what is expected of it but nothing more.I must mention one last thing to be completely honest. I might have written this review under the influence...of Jake Gyllenhaal's arms, Jake Gyllenhaal's eyes and Jake Gyllenhaal.
__label__6 This is the perfect movie to watch while playing Farmville. There is absolutely nothing that requires your attention as it is two hours of fighting and nothing more.I was not surprised to find that it was based upon a video game. Watching this movie is basically the same, and isn't fighting and killing what video games are all about? You could have substituted anyone for Jake Gyllenhaal and Gemma Arterton, or anyone else in this movie and you would have ended up with the same result. There was no requirement for actors above screaming and providing a lot of work for stunt doubles. Bobby Holland Hanton, double for Gyllenhaal was one among over 100 stunt performers! Was it a waste of time? No. It was a perfect popcorn movie for those who are into video games, and for the young. It's like eating pizza: you know you shouldn't but, but it tastes so good while you are.
__label__6 In 1989, Jordan Mechner created the first Prince of Persia video game on an Apple II. Since then, the video game franchise has come a long way and is one of the more successful and recognizable titles in the industry. Jerry Bruckheimer Films acquired the film rights to the 2003 video game Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time and now it's a Disney blockbuster.Prince Dastan (Gyllenhaal), an orphan from the streets of Sixth Century Persia, is taken in by King Sharaman (Ronald Pickup) and his brother Nizam (Kingsley). Dastan takes his place as the adopted brother of the two sons of Sharaman, growing up as a Prince. Now adults, the three princes lead an assault on the Holy City of Alamut, suspected to be the site of several forges where weapons for enemies of Persia are manufactured.In Alamut, they encounter Princess Tamina (Arterton), the guardian of the Dagger of Time. The wielder of the Dagger can turn back time and only he is aware of what happened. Dastan is framed for murder at the victory celebration, and escapes with Tamina. Neither likes the other a whole lot, but have to cooperate so that Dastan can prove his innocence and Tamina can safeguard the dagger.Along the way, they meet Sheik Amar (Alfred Molina), an "entrepreneur" who runs an ostrich-racing syndicate. Amar assists Dastan and Tamina in traveling to a sanctuary where the dagger can be safe. They are ambushed by Hassansins, treacherous hired killers skilled in a variety of deadly arts.It is revealed that Nizam is behind the scheme and plans to use the dagger to turn back time such that he and not his brother Sharaman would be the true king. Dastan and Tamina thus have to prevent the dagger from falling into the hands of the evil Nizam.Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time sets out to be an epic, sweeping adventure. There is some spectacle, several good action sequences and well-choreographed fight scenes. Despite this, Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time feels more like an average Hollywood actioner dressed as a sword-and-sandals tale.It is more than obvious that the film's main purpose is to try to replicate the success achieved by Disney and Bruckheimer's previous venture, the Pirates of the Caribbean film franchise. As such, comparisons are inevitable. Unfortunately, Prince of Persia: the Sands of Time does not feel as refreshing and swashbuckling as the Pirates of the Caribbean films, especially the first movie. It had a bigger scope, took greater risks filmmaking-wise and really broke more ground. Elements of other Disney films are readily recognizable: the street urchin-turned prince from Aladdin and the evil uncle from The Lion King, among others.The film boasts a cast that can be best described as "interesting". Indie darling Jake Gyllenhaal may seem the furthest thing from a marketable action star, but he is very charming and likable as Dastan. Gyllenhaal's dedication is also evident in the amount of muscle mass he gained to play the Prince, providing plenty of eye candy in what is not a typical ladies' film. Gyllenhaal performed many of his own stunts, including swordfighting and parkour-style jumping across rooftops. Who knows, this may be the start of the Brokeback Mountain guy's mainstream movie action star career.It is a bit of a pity then that his leading lady doesn't exude the same kind of appeal. The casting of Gemma Arterton seems to be inspired by choosing fellow English Rose Keira Knightley as the leading lady of the Pirates of the Caribbean films. Arterton is stiff and shares little chemistry with Gyllenhaal, and looks nothing like the perceived image of a Far Eastern princess. There is a scene where Tamina removes her veil and the whole room gasps at her beauty-while Arterton is somewhat attractive, that's incredulous at best. I would have rather a Bollywood beauty be cast as Tamina, someone like Malika Sherawat, Frieda Pinto or Katrina Kaif.Ben Kingsley is excellent as a mustache-twirling evil uncle, and it is no surprise at all when he is revealed to be the villainous mastermind-that eye shadow should be indication enough. Being half-Indian, he definitely pulls off the Middle-Eastern look better than many of his co-stars.It is Alfred Molina who steals the show as the comic relief. His character Sheik Amar is greedy, shifty and untrustworthy, but somehow Molina makes him utterly likable, relishing the chance to ham it up just a little.Filmed partially on location in Morocco, the film possesses a hint of the exotic. However, the film feels culturally and historically ambiguous, especially since everyone speaks with a crisp British accent. Also, the audience can easily tell when the action moves to the sound stage, and, unlike Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest, it's not going to win an Oscar for Best Visual Effects-or anything else, for that matter.That being said, the film is undeniably good fun, and is really something the whole family can enjoy (a good measure of violence keeps it from being too juvenile). Just keep one eye closed to the faults and go along for a theme park-style ride.
__label__6 It's 'Bayhem' time again - and this time around demolition king Michael Bay presents his trademark 'Six-C's' in glorious 3D! In case you don't know, the six 'Cs' are: chases, clashes, crashes, combustions, carnage and cleavage. Spread over a bottom-numbing two-and-a-half hours, "Transformers: Dark Of The Moon" can also induce mental and metal fatigue, especially with the clanging robots smashing one another - and the whole exercise making little sense.Technologically, however, "Dark Of The Moon" is Bay's best work so far - and action fans looking to be awed by scenes of massive mayhem and destruction in 3D should be satisfied. Story-wise, this one is better than "Revenge Of The Fallen", but not as fun and emotionally-connecting as the first.The film opens with a flashback to the Sixties Apollo landing mission where history is rewritten (by Ehren Kruger) to incorporate the cover-up of an alien spaceship crashing on the moon. That spaceship, of course, is one of the remains of the epic battles between the Autobots and the Decepticons, and its 'discovery' sparks off another war that threatens to destroy planet Earth. Or at least the face of Chicago as we know it.On the human level, we find that Sam Witwicky (Shia LaBeouf) has traded in his girlfriend Mikaela (Megan Fox) for a newer model (a Victoria Secret one, to be exact) in the shape of Rosie Huntington-Whiteley as Carly). Sam is being offered a job by Bruce Brazos (John Malkovich) but we soon learn that Carly's boss Dylan (Patrick Dempsey) may be up to no good. Then, when the conflict between the Autobots and Decepticons hots up, Captain Lennox (Josh Duhamel) and Sergeant Epps (Tyrese Gibson) of the elite Government squad NEST are summarily called into action.We get lulled into believing that there may somehow be an intelligent plot coming from the conspiracy of the NASA lunar-landing cover-up which also involves the Russian space program and Chernobyl. These turn out to be just an exercise in 'historical name-dropping' to spur our interest before we get to the demolition derby created by the Transformers. Indeed, some of the robots seem to emote better that the live cast. Cybertron leader Sentinel Prime, for example, is even designed to look like Leonard Nimoy (who provides its voice), complete with stuff that looks like beard. Again, the problems of the previous installments recur - like the confusion between the good and bad robots in the clashes.Unlike the first two movies, there are no more gags about the shock of humans interacting with the mechanical 'bots. Bay, however, insists on some comic sequences and he has hired Ken Jeong to do his in-your-face shtick as Jerry Wang. John Turturro reprises his role as former FBI agent Simmons but this time around, Turturro finds it fit to clown around with his role. The most striking inclusion to the cast is Rosie Huntington-Whiteley as Sam's love interest. However, with limited acting talent, she provides only eye-candy and beside her, Megan Fox would look like an Oscar-caliber actress.Like the first "Transformers", this one is also a live-action cartoon on a grand scale. Scenes of Chicago buildings being toppled and destroyed can be as spectacular and brain-numbing as those of September 11; and the wing-suit flying sequences are breath-taking. Indeed, these are what most of Michael Bay's fans pay for and they will not be disappointed. The only problem for me is that Bay prolongs and repeats the robotic clash sequences to the point of being self-indulgent. Technically brilliant and visually arresting, "Dark Of The Moon" lacks heart and soul. (limchangmoh.blogspot.com)
__label__6 Man, so much stuff happens in this damn movie. One can only scratch the surface of what the movie has to offer when reviewing it. The best I can do is list the best and worst of it.The GoodThe best thing about these movies is how they look, how well the transformers integrate into the real-life footage to make a compelling action sequence. Here it's cranked to eleven, and the CG is very impressive. On the larger shots, even tiny transformers far in the background look convincing.There a several action set pieces (specifically towards the end) which are easily some of the best of the trilogy. The whole scene with the collapsing building and the tracking shot of Optimus slicing and smashing his way through a bunch of decepticons are colossal showstoppers.This is also one of the best 3D movies to date. One major critique of 3D is that 3D glasses make the film darker, but here they do a very smart thing, the film itself is brighter than your average movie and this problem evens itself out. Another thing that worried me before I saw it is that if there was so much high-speed action maybe that and the combination of 3D would give me motion sickness, end of the movie: no problems.The BadThe villains suck. Megatron does absolutely nothing throughout the whole film until right at the end, and even that was a let down. Shockwave appears briefly at the start and vanishes for two hours, he himself doesn't actually do much, it's all down to this big nameless tentacle-clad decepticon he works with. Starscream does nothing, but then he never did anything anyway. I'm not even going to mention Patrick Dempsey. But the biggest let down is with the movies main villain "Sentinel Prime". Basically he is Optimus' predecessor but he changed sides to the decepticons and made a deal with Megatron to bring life back to their home planet Cybertron. This is the driving element of the movie, but there are many plot holes from this. Early in the film Optimus basically says he wants to make Sentinel Prime leader of the autobots again, and offers him the matrix (an item that brings dead transformers back to life) but Sentinel Prime declines. Then he changes sides. Why did he decline taking the matrix? it would in definitely be a help in his ploy. Sentinel Prime gets numerous chances to kill Optimus once and for all, but like all lousy villains he delays his hand and Optimus lives.The product-placement is out of control. I am not joking when I say there is a scene where Shia LaBeouf stops the movie to recite a Mercerdes CommercialThe annoying characters from the last movie are gone, save one. The little autobot who humped Megan Fox's leg makes a return. Just be thankful there's no Skids and MudflapThe Down-Right UglyThe acting here is a range from Tolerable to Impossibly-Bad. There are actors here that have been in some high quality material that just blatantly signed onto this because A) they wanted a paycheck B) they have nothing else on their schedules I mean John Malkovich and Frances McDormand are Oscar nominees who are so unbelievably bad in this movie they make Shia Lebeouf look like Laurence Olivier and Rosie Huntington-Whiteley is the stiffest most wooden actress i've seen in ages. John Turturro is awkward but after three movies I don't care anymore.Stereotypes a-hoy, not as prominent as before but it's here. We have: Tyrese Gibson and some other black guy fist-bump and ridicule one another. We have LeBeouf call a Japanese man "Moto-Mushi-Ichi" and decepticons with dreadlocks. Plus that gay guy from the hangover makes an appearance as some loony scientist, but luckily Michael Bay had the sense to drop him out of a window.Some visceral "American" moments, like using the moon landing to spark the movies plot. Also blowing up the statue of Lincoln to let Megatron sit on the chair instead. Since i'm British I didn't care for these scenes that are obviously meant to say to American audiences: "These decepticons are blowing up America! Damn Them!"In Conclusion, I may have some major complaints with this movie but it is a ton of fun. The movie delivers on everything it promises and everything you expect and not a single dull moment. If you loved the first movie, and loved the second movie (god help you) I can guarantee you will love this movie even more. I'd say the definitive summer film this year has been made clear.So.. Viewing Audience.. Roll Out...
__label__6 Sorry, but after reading all this negative comments, I like to give you my thoughts on this. When I walked out of the movie I was not really satisfied, because some things bothers me, like the monkey-rope scene and some other ridiculous and illogical things. But, then I remembered scenes from the first three movies, like jumping out of a plane with a rubber boat and then bob run with it down the Himalaya. Or Indy hanging on top of submarine and then swims with it through half of the ocean (isn't such a thing going underwater sometimes?). Well, what I want to say is that in the old Indy films there where tons of ridiculous stunts and it always was very cartoonish and yes, often cheesy. But as I child I liked those movies for that. They are just adventures with a lot of action, mystic and fun, not more.We have all grown up (with all that logic and reason), and we want the movie to fascinate us again like the first three did as we were a child. The disappointment is programmed. The movie is still an Indiana Jones Movie, it has so many running gags and links to the first three ones, it's truly a tribute to the fans. (Even that Indy starts Mutt to call 'Junior' was a nice one.) Maybe this one is too much of an Indiana Jones movie, because it just delivers elements that can be found in the first three movies too (the car chases, insects, falling down of waterfalls, e.g.) - but what else do we want? Also I didn't think the CGI was too much, I even found it was decent. And yes, this one was made to make money. The first three were also made to make money. Films are supposed to make money - so what? So, maybe just watch the first three again, then relax and just sit back and enjoy this one. It's not supposed to be drop dead serious and realistic. And when I look back, I wasn't bored throughout the whole movie, it was very entertaining. It's maybe just the long time between this and the last one, some things have changed, if we like it or not. But I am thankful that this movie was made.The only thing I was missing was the whip - it has one scene in the beginning and then Indi uses it never again in this movie. I always liked the whip, because it's not a normal weapon for a hero, and makes Indi a little more special.
__label__6 Usually, when you go to see an action/adventure movie, especially an Indiana Jones movie, you're going to suspend your disbelief and just allow yourself to "get into" the movie. These kinds of movies are supposed to be mindless escapist fun. Still, one might expect some small modicum of plausibility or connection to the real world. When it comes to "Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull," forget about suspending disbelief. Just pretend you're in another dimension altogether. If you do that, you'll have have met one of the two prerequisites for seeing this movie. (If you don't believe me now, you will when you see this film and see our hero survive a cataclysmic event in a fairly cartoonish manner a mere 15 minutes into the film.) The other prerequisite is that you've seen the other three movies...religiously. A huge chunk of the entertainment value of this film comes from nostalgia, in-jokes, and self-parody. It is an entertaining movie and I had fun and laughed while I was watching it and the reason for this is because we are either enjoying seeing all of the same old gags done once again in a bigger and cooler way, or we are enjoying seeing those gags mocked. Trusty bullwhip? Check. Fedora? Check. Long car chase with fighting and leaping and what-not? Check. Dark tombs lit only by torches? Check. Gross creepy crawly critters? Check.This is what makes the movie entertaining, but is also what prevents it from greatness and what makes me hesitant to call it a true "Indiana Jones" movie. George Lucas (who co-wrote the screenplay) has tried to do here what he did to the "Star Wars" prequels, namely that he thinks that appealing to the fan base with in-jokes, self-parody, and re-hashing the same old stuff can take the place of actually writing a a story that can stand on its own merits. The "Star Wars" prequels failed because Lucas could not get past his constant references to the original trilogy and so instead created fan fiction instead of true prequels. (Well, there was also the fact that Lucas' dialogue SUCKED.) Here, the stunts and action sequences and in-jokes keep us feeling entertained during the course of the film, but when we walk away, we wonder where was the real story.Indiana Jones is a homage to 1930s serials about treasure hunters. He's out of place in the 1950s. Also out of place are the Soviets(led by Cate Blanchett in a Rosa Kleb-like role). And there are many, many, MANY instances where you will get to wondering just how implausible the next stunt will be. All of that I can put up with, though, and in fact can and do add to the entertainment value of the film. What I could not put up with was the ending, which will remind you not of Indiana Jones but of the ending to another Spielberg movies that pre-dates "Raiders of the Lost Ark." This movie is lots of fun to watch, but it doesn't take itself seriously and probably shouldn't be part of the Indiana Jones canon.
__label__6 If you can make it through the tedious first third, it's not a bad little movie. The interplay between Arlo and Spot is generally enjoyable (the first really good scene is Spot trying to feed Arlo). The movie can be quite funny, somewhat thrilling, and occasionally touching.So basically, if this was some kids cartoon from some lesser studio, this would be pretty good. For Pixar though, it's a big disappointment.One of the film's biggest flaws is also one of its greatest strengths; the animation. On the one hand, the landscapes - forests, rivers, fields - have an amazing photo-realism that mark them as an incredible achievement in animation. But this hyper-realism makes the main dinosaur breed look terrible; they are about as realistic as the cars in Cars, and it's like someone filmed a sock puppet show in the Grand Canyon. It's the thing most reviewers seem to talk about, so it's rather amazing that Pixar didn't see the problem themselves.It's not that the dinosaurs needed to look real, but the insistence on those giant, soulful eyes made the heads misshapen, and the colors are too clean and shiny to meld with the environments. Other breeds of dinosaurs and insects have an acceptable cartooniness, but Arlo is just annoying in design, creating a constant de-immersion signal.The story is conventional and predictable, the emotional moments feel manipulative, but still, it's not bad as kid's cartoons go. But it sure isn't what we expect from Pixar.
__label__6 After being blown away by Pixar's previous film 'Inside Out' (which is one of their best too), while not really deserving of so many 1- star reviews 'The Good Dinosaur' disappointed on many levels. Not just lesser Pixar but a contender for their worst too, even more so than the often panned 'Cars 2' (which to me while not great was not that bad). It is a long way from an awful film, certainly much better than several reviews have lead you to believe (seeing as 1- star indicates no redeeming qualities, which is not the case here), but considering Pixar's usual incredibly high standard I was expecting so much more. There are a number of good things here in 'The Good Dinosaur'. Much of the animation is spectacular, including some of Pixar's most gorgeously vivid colours and some of their most stunning and rich- in-detail backgrounds. The music score is both whimsical and energetic, and the film also benefits from some clever casting and very strong voice acting, Sam Elliot in particular stands out. Many have complained of Arlo's voice work, it wasn't a problem personally.On top of those, 'The Good Dinosaur' does have some genuinely funny moments (mostly visual), parts that are genuinely touching, some thumping, thrilling action, a beautifully realised central friendship, an endearing lead character in Arlo and an inspirational main message (as a matter of fact, all the lessons and messages the film teaches are great). So a lot to admire. However, 'The Good Dinosaur' does fall short. While there is much to admire in the animation overall, it also contains the least appealing character designs in any of Pixar's film, the photo- realistic look looks cartoony rather than realistic and jars against the vivid backgrounds . While keeping things simple can work in a film's favour, 'The Good Dinosaur' is rather too simple and straight-forward that the storytelling while not completely dull lacks momentum and veers on being too paper-thin and simplistic as well as being too predictable and familiar. Target audience is also an issue. Adults may find themselves checking their watches, not that it's completely dull but unlike much of Pixar's other films it is not consistently captivating. And with children, while this viewer usually tries to not complain about anything being too dark or unnecessary and has been known to defend films criticised for that 'The Good Dinosaur' is an example of a film where that criticism is valid and understandable, because there is some dark and disturbing content (like a decapitation and a drug reference) that added absolutely nothing and quite frankly had no place in a family film. The violence is similarly gratuitous. The script is inconsistent in the laughs and emotional investment factors and is not as clever, witty, insightful or as intelligently structured as the writing for Pixar's best, coming across as even more paper-thin and simplistic than the storytelling and the dialogue itself is often cheesy and clichéd. In conclusion, not as bad as most have made out but very much a lesser Pixar. Has enough good merits to make it watchable, but it's the only Pixar film to date to disappoint me. Very hard to decide between a 5 or 6, as it was actually not easy to rate, so it's got a 5.5/10 (somewhere in between). Bethany Cox
__label__6 This is a very sweet, sentimental film and was very refreshing from Pixar. The latest Pixar films have been either disappointing or too focused on being great instead of fun and enjoyable. I am in the minority of people who didn't enjoy Inside Out. I didn't find it very relatable or emotional and thought the story was contrived. That's where The Good Dinosaur succeeds. It doesn't try to be relatable. It does try to be emotional, and succeeds occasionally, but for the most part, it's just a fun, lighthearted adventure film.The Good Dinosaur doesn't try to overreach its status to be considered truly "great." It knows what it is and perfectly nails what it does best. People often hate Pixar when they make a film that is different. People hated Cars 2 because it had a story that wasn't trying to touch childhood emotions, but instead create childhood memories for the children who watch it. Brave was criticized for having a princess heroine like regular Disney animated films. People, I suspect, don't like The Good Dinosaur because it doesn't easily fit into every childhood memory or emotionally impact everyone who watches it. My only major problems with this film is that the story isn't always engaging. It has a few plot developments or character introductions that I found unnecessary to the overall structure of the film. Aside from the story, the animation was stunning and made it easier for me to enjoy watching the film. The animation is more simple and lovable than Pixar's most recent attempt at making a "great" film, Coco. Where Coco strives for complex, layered shots and animation, The Good Dinosaur is simple, digestible, and realistic (the backgrounds) while still being ridiculous enough to appeal to young kids. Expectations are subverted and common animation movie tropes are avoided. Even the first human child in the film is basically turned into a dog. If this could be appreciated for what it is, and not what it isn't, this could also be a considered a great film, despite its missteps.3.5/5 stars
__label__6 Once you get past the accents and the stunning scenery there is not much of a story.I can't believe the "female heroine" still gets buzz as original. When was the last time a kids show had a male hero that wasn't in some way arrogant needing to be knocked down a notch (Tangled, Cars,Buzz Lightyear etc)or a weak anti-hero that realizes he needs help (Woody, Nemo's Dad, etc.Make a movie with a classic male hero and that would be mold breaking. If movie makers stop treating female audiences as if they are so fragile they could not stand a guy with confidence or deserving confidence, that would be original.The cliché is that the female characters are always perfect except just a bit too spunky.
__label__6 I was worried when Justin Lin was signed on to direct. I am not a fan of the mindless Fast and Furious franchise with its ridiculous stunts and silly plots. I gave him a chance, because after all, its Star Trek. What we got was Fast and Furious in space. Just running, fighting, explosions, one frantic scene after another with no time to develop characters, motivations, or even plausible Sci-Fi. It feels shallow, a promising plot sacrificed to the alter of YA expectations. Another Star Trek movie where the enterprise is destroyed, again? Is this sci-fi disaster porn now?The dialogue is forced, the banter off tempo, and in the end, the actors talents and IP were wasted on what feels like a B movie.
__label__6 Not a Star trek fan, I'm a sci-fi fan. There's a difference. Loved the first, disappointed with the second, then this. I don't know why early reviews are so positive, but anyway, it's my view. Been so long since a movie of this genre has been the complete package, story, acting, directing, CGI, etc. This movie does nothing to address that. I got bored 2/3 way in, wanting it to end. So many plot holes, just so many. Go see it, but don't have great expectations. It was nice to look at, but that's all. The bad guy started out being very good (at being bad I mean). Opening was OK, nice special effects, just no credibility. And way too much shaky camera, way to much.
__label__6 This ain't your daddy's Star Trek (and the 3D is so unnecessary that it is NOT worth the extra cost):(1) The plot is close to incomprehensible (2) The directing is mediocre (okay, that is a characteristic in common with the original series) (3) The audience manipulation is palpable (4) The action is overblown (5) And did I mention the plot is close to incomprehensible?Don't get me wrong. The film is generally fun. But it lacked the heart and soul present in all five television series (ain't counting no cartoons). The "Spock Prime" character is about as confusing as it gets. And while the homages to Leonard Nimoy were touching, they were a bit heavy handed.But worst of all was the loss of any subtlety and heart. This reboot increasing seems to be solely about the money.And the negative reaction to Zulu being gay -- which was handled with taste and, unlike the rest of the film, subtlety -- was just plain crazy. I would think that fans would have been a lot more upset about the Uhura-Spock romantic relationship given the nature of Vulcans, even half-human, half-Vulcan ones -- now that's moving away from the Roddenberry playbook far more than making Zulu gay.All in all, Star Trek Beyond is a pleasant, but not very satisfying addition to the Star Trek compendium.
__label__6 OK, so I'm a Star Trek fan being old enough to have watched the original series BEFORE it was in re-runs! But Star Trek Beyond just plain disappoints. It's not terrible but it's not great either.It's Star Date 2263.2 and Kirk (Chris Pine) is into the third year of their "5 year mission" (which seems to somehow throw away a lot of potential sequel opportunities already doesn't it?). Less buoyant and confident than he used to be, Kirk is feeling a little emotionally 'Lost in Space': after all, as the Hitchhikers Guide to the Galaxy put it "Space is big REALLY big". Spock (Zachary Quinto) also receives some news of a personal nature that unsettles him. They are both in need of a vacation, and Starbase Yorktown (queue some spectacular special effects and an operatic Michael Giacchino track) appears to be able to offer them that. The crew disperse for a bit of R and R: Sulu (John Cho) goes off to spend time with his family (after the big internet furore, the gay aspect of this is very subtle); Kirk gets career advice from the Admiral; and Spock and Uhuru (Zoe Saldana) go their separate ways since – like Ross and Rachael – they are "on a break".The reverie is rudely interrupted by the arrival of a frantic alien called Kalara (Lydia Wilson) from the other side of a dense nebula. She needs help to rescue her crew, stranded on a planet there. Kirk's rescue mission however goes far from to-plan, and he and his crew are caught in the clutches of the warlord Krall (Idris Elba).What's nice about this film is that the core crew of Kirk, Spock, Uhuru, Bones (Karl Urban), Scotty (Simon Pegg), Sulu and Chekov (the tragically departed Anton Yelchin) gel together really nicely as an ensemble cast. The traditional by-play between the characters feels unforced, comedic and provides a warmth at the heart of the film. There is also a touching tribute to Leonard Nimoy, who died while the film was in pre-production, woven into the story of which I'm sure he would have approved.Supporting the crew as a potential new character is the strikingly attractive and kick-ass Jaylah played by Sofia Boutella (the evil amputee Gazelle from "Kingsman").There's also some fine and innovative alien technology on display with the 'swarm-like' alien fleet harking back (in an expanded scale) to the invulnerability of the nanites from an original episode.Unfortunately, all of these positives are severely offset by a largely planet-bound Simon Pegg and Doug Jung story (didn't the woeful "Insurrection" teach writers that this tends not to be a good idea?) and action sequences that are so manically fast-moving that it is almost impossible to keep track of what exactly is happening. (Perversely, this is a film that might actually make more sense on the small screen than the big one, which is just BAD CINEMA!). There was even one point in a final fight scene where I seriously feared Kirk and Krall might have a 'sharing of mother's names' moment (if you know what I mean) but fortunately this script apocalypse is avoided.At the conclusion the story actually makes no sense to me at all: without spoilers, it is difficult to discern exactly what the motivations of Krall actually were. Throw in a graphic in the final reel that looks like Krall is attacking the Death Star (no, seriously – watch for it!) and the concoction just doesn't hang together very well. I know Simon Pegg and director Justin ("Fast and Furious") Lin are huge Trekkers, but – sorry guys – this was a C- for me.It's a mildly diverting popcorn movie, but with (for me at least) yet another disappointing film, its getting to the point where the best 'summer blockbuster' is likely to be Deadpool and that was released in February! (Please visit http://bob-the-movie-man.com for the graphical version of this review. You can enter your email address there to automatically receive my future reviews. Thanks).
__label__6 Rush Hour 3, the sequel I've been waiting for, it's been 6 years since our last Rush and I couldn't wait to join Chris and Jackie once again for their awesome comedy and action. I saw Rush Hour 3 a few days ago and I have to say that while I was definitely entertained, this still didn't feel the same as the previous Rush Hour films. It had great comedy, don't get me wrong, Chris Tucker is still so much fun to watch on screen. Jackie adds a little more comedic edge to his role this time; but it seemed like Jackie and Chris are not clicking as well as they used too. It almost seemed like they were meeting for the first time watching them on screen. Not only that, but this movie seemed more rushed and the story wasn't as well developed as the first two Rush Hour films.In the beginning it seems like Lee and Carter are not on good terms, Carter seems to have broken off Lee's relationship to his ex girlfriend, Isabella. After an assassination attempt on China's Ambassador, Lee and Carter are about to face the Triads', China's deadliest gang. They are looking for a list in Paris and Lee and Carter are on the case to find a beautiful woman who might hold the secret. Things get a little more tricky when Lee has to his own brother who is the leader of the Triads'.Rush Hour 3 is all in good fun, standing on it's own, if this was the first Rush Hour, it would have been fine somewhat, but just comparing it to the first two films, this wasn't as good. But that's just my opinion. But I think if you loved the first two Rush Hour films, you should see this, it's still a fun film and has great comedy, there is a little less action, a warning in advance, but it's all good if you are looking for a fun film for the end of the summer.6/10
__label__6 With all the complexities of the final installments of this years trilogies, this should be a welcome change of pace. Probably the worst of the series, but really not bad. Highly predictable were as I told the people I was sitting with who was behind it all and who the accomplices were. The movie in a whole is about an hour and twenty minutes. It has pretty humorous parts throughout and some good action scenes, but in all honesty, they could have been better. The chemistry between the two leads is still there which makes these movies fun in the first place. This was an unneeded yet entertaining entry into the series, but it is basically the love child of the first two. The outtakes as usual are the best part of the film. To wrap it up, if you enjoyed the first two, you will probably enjoy this one as well. Sure, you can see everything coming from a mile away but it still makes you laugh and still entertains. Take this for what it is and you will have a good time.
__label__6 Should movies make money, then the Hollywood rule of thumb is to make another, and another, until the franchise runs out of steam. The original Rush Hour was a Jackie Chan vehicle of sorts to break into Hollywood, and it made a lot of money with the mis-pairing opposite Chris Tucker in a buddy cop movie formula filled with action and comedy. Rush Hour 2 was made 3 years later and made even more money, but it took 6 years for the second sequel to be made, and 9 years for the entire trilogy to be done (pray tell, will there be another sequel?)Is the franchise tired? Probably, yet probably not. Face it, it's Jackie Chan, and most of his films (with the exception of missteps such as Around the World in 80 Days) make Hollywood studios smile. You can rely on him to deliver the goods in any action comedy, but age unfortunately has caught up with him, not to mention as well the safer-than-safe minimal risks that studios in the West tend to take with its stars. The action sequences in Rush Hour 3 look a bit tired, tame, and very uninspiring, and what Jackie Chan can probably still do, has been whittled down to sequences that are just a pale shadow of what could have been.Which leaves us with the comedy, thankfully still having its moments especially for those punchlines which deliver. Tucker again gets most of the snarky lines, and a target for those politically incorrect jokes, while dishing some of his own. If there's any hint of rudimentary character development after these years, is that his James Carter, besides having been relegated to traffic duties, managed to "half-chinese" himself, and no longer is that helpless cop who without his gun, can't kick a ball for nuts.The plot is no rocket science, and in fact, the previous two movies just had something which could coast along from scene to scene, providing a platform either to get our heroes Lee (Chan) and his brother-from-another-mother James (Tucker) into fisticuffs, or provide something for laughs. The first had a kidnapping of a Chinese Consul's daughter which the duo had to investigate in the US, while the second brought them to Hong Kong on the trail of a counterfeiting scam. The third pits the detectives against Triads, and brings us full circle with the return of that little girl in the original movie, who's now all grown up, played by Chinese starlet Zhang Jingchu.Zhang Jingchu follows in the footsteps of fellow compatriot Zhang Ziyi who starred in the previous sequel. But unlike Ziyi, Jingchu's role is sans martial arts, despite her character being a kungfu instructor. It's unfortunately a purely flower vase role, though she looks more fleshed and healthier than her druggy role in Protégé. Yvan Attal's supporting role as a French cab driver is actually more of a scene stealer - listen out for those jibes at America, though it's a little of a cop out how that eventually plays out. Some of the more totally insane moments involve those deliberate lost in translation moments, which are the more enjoyable moments in this movie.Rush Hour 3 is similar in structure with its predecessors, and it does seem a tad familiar at times in the way the story gets developed, with only a change in locale, now set in Paris. It's basically an attempt to reunite the two stars in order to make another dent in the box office, so though they're back, this movie can't be taken all too seriously. It plays out like a cartoon for adults, though the local distributor decided to edit portions of the French revue scene to obta in a rating that everyone can go to.If anything, stay behind for the outtakes, which triumphs over the main offering, hands down.
__label__6 It was pretty much inevitable that someone would make a movie based on all the 2012 hoopla. Nor is it surprising when that someone is disaster maven Roland Emmerich. His latest effort adheres closely to the formula established by his earlier films "Independence Day" and "The Day After Tomorrow"- in other words we get to watch a typically flawed-but-lovable American family (headed by John Cusack and Amanda Peet), along with a range of supporting characters, attempt to survive the end of the world.That's all there is to the basic plot. The real stars of the film are the truly spectacular special effects. Emmerich really pulls out all the stops and creates some truly awesome set-pieces of destruction. In order to ensure that the main characters have endless perilous situations to escape from, we get to see a bunch of natural and man-made wonders get totaled by Mama Nature. Highlights include Los Angeles falling into the sea, Las Vegas being swallowed by the desert, and the Himalayas being submerged by tidal waves.Improbable? Definitely. Ridiculous? You bet. But none of that matters since "2012" is exactly the film it was intended to be- a great big popcorn movie that offers big laughs, big thrills, and a lot of good old fashioned fun.
__label__6 From an artistic viewpoint, the new Robert Zemeckis film from the man who gave us THE POLAR EXPRESS, is another of his animated features using the motion picture capture technique that allows the actors to play several roles. The cinematography is exceptionally well done.JIM CARREY, as miserly Ebenizer Scrooge, looks nothing like his real self. He's a perfect Scrooge, using his voice and mannerisms to great effect, never overplaying the role as you might expect he would.The visit from three spirits is more frightening than usual, since Zemeckis decided to throw everything he could into startling special effects--sometimes with very gruesome results. The sight of Marley's Ghost with a flapping jaw that has to be realigned by Marley is just one of the "extra" touches. Some of the "spirit" scenes are too intense for small children, more likely to frighten them than anything else.There are times when the story remains very faithful to the Dickens book, sometimes even word for word. But when Zemeckis decides to show off that the camera can do with flying aerial scenes zooming over Victorian London, it begins to stray a bit. Biggest stray is a chase scene that has a miniature Scrooge going through drain pipes to escape an oncoming coach and horses trying to run him down.The lovely score by Alan Silvestri blends perfectly with the on screen action and includes a number of traditional Christmas favorites. GARY OLDMAN and COLIN FIRTH do well in key supporting roles but it's really Carrey's show all the way. He plays several main characters with great skill.Not quite as festive as you might expect, it's a darker version of Scrooge, handsomely executed so that many of the scenes look like Victorian illustrations from the novel. Warning: This is not a child's version of the tale. Parents should be advised that some of the content is too gruesome for young kids.
__label__6 When I give this film a 6, it's being a bit generous. Trying to put myself in other people's shoes, I'd say this film probably range anywhere from a 3 to a 5, and then there will be those who hate it. Still, I am likely to lean on the side of one of the few who likes the film. But it's a mixed bag. Sure enough, the special effects, action, and other elements are fantastic. But the film does little to develop it's own character beyond their archetypes and the script seems content to stay average at best.Jupiter Ascending actually paints a pretty fascinating sci-fi universe. As it turns out, Earth, and thousands of other worlds like it, are owned by a number of different families which act like corporations who seed these worlds. Once the worlds become over populated, their people are harvested to create a youth serum which keeps those living in the corporate society young for millennia after millennia. In this case, the Abraxis family is one of the most powerful and each of three heirs is vying for control of Earth. Standing in their way, however, is Jupiter Jones, who turns out to be the genetic reincarnation of the Abraxis' sibling's mother, and claimant to the throne of the family. If all of that sounds like a lot to take in, it is, and easily the best part of the film. The Wachowski's have a talent for creating fascinating worlds that feel complete. Here, they have created a massive sci-fi universe the likes of which we haven't seen in at least a decade, maybe longer. It's very clear that their ambition extends beyond just this one story. In fact, there are hundreds of fascinating stories that could be told about this universe. The idea of a corporate controlled universe is timely, and where we've seen this story played out before about the giant corporation versus the little guy, it's never quite been told on this scale. It's a shame then that this ambition is wasted on a story that doesn't seem to capitalize on such a universe. The story is good, but the script is lacking and the characters never really become all that interesting. They end up feeling like caricatures meant to introduce us to this world we've entered. They're histories are explained and they clearly have fleshed out back stories, but they feel almost lifeless in that they seem to be here only to be an aspect of this world and not a full character. Even as a lead character, Channing Tatum as Caine feels like little more than a body meant to perform choreography and defend Milas Kunis' Jupiter. At the very least, Jupiter is a sympathetic character who shows shades of change, but even she often feels like little more than a narrator meant to ask question for exposition purposes. Eddie Redmayne seems to have the juiciest part, and though he still seems to be a one dimensional villain, he shows emotional depth that the other characters lack. Most people I suspect will have trouble forgiving the lack of a truly meaningful script and characters that are too one dimensional. But the good news is that the film isn't a complete loss. The action, which the Wachowski's have proved to have a handle on, is fantastic. This is Star Wars level stuff, with space battles and well choreographed martial art duels. The cool tech thrown in, like the gravity boots, add some imaginative spice that once again shows the Wachowski's propensity for finding ways to justify making a 12 year old's imagination a reality. It's some truly fun stuff. Likewise, the world we're introduced to looks fantastic. The special effects make believable some very interesting and exciting details, such as the multitude of gadgets and weapons we're witness to. It's clear that the Wachowski's have set out to create a unique universe, and in my estimation, they have succeeded. I'm a sucker for this kind of world crafting, and so they get higher marks from me. Of course, I can see why the film was pushed back to the dumping grounds of February. This was meant to be a summer blockbuster, but up against so many big, successful films, it would have a hard time competing. I have the distinct feeling this is going to be a film that gets left behind this year, especially in favor of bigger films being released throughout 2015. Had the film been more focused on it's characters and less on exposition of the universe we're witnessing, then I feel it could have succeeded and become a modern sci-fi classic. But as is, it falls short. Honestly, I do hope for a sequel to this, if only to see this universe continue to get development. Perhaps a sequel would fulfill the ambition the Wachowski's clearly seek to build upon.
__label__6 I must say, the critics of this film seem overly harsh. If nothing else, the film is worth seeing for the special effects. I thought Mila Kunis was better in Black Swan, but she wasn't bad in the lead role. The plot was very strange, but that is what the Wachowski's do best. A lot of small rolls and cameos from big stars. And I wish Doona Bae had a larger role, as she stole the show in Cloud Atlas.I can see, why this movie cost 175 million dollars. The sets were brilliant and very imaginative. The 3d was also cool. If you are looking for something which isn't your boiler plate science fiction, give this film a day in court.
__label__6 I saw this with 6 eight year old boys, which may have influenced my opinions somewhat, but they were not gripped by this. Firstly though, there is a lot right with this movie. The special effects are stunning. How they got Susan and Lucy to walk through the forest with Aslan I will never know - the problem was I found myself trying to work that out, rather than gripped by the narrative. The kids are great. Georgie as Lucy is particularly good I think - very Lucyish and Skander manages to make Edmund less of a prig and more angry and at odds with the world. THere are epic scenes (the boys all said they liked the battle scene yet, and acted some of it out in the pizza restaurant afterwards), and swooping vistas and vast tracking shots and rousing music. Its just that I had never really thought of Narnia like that. In becoming epic, they have lost two things - the magic and the playfulness. Lets take the magic first. A tiny point, but the snow didn't sparkle. You know how snow glistens and glints ? Well not in this Narnia it didn't. It wasn't a magical place to wander into - it was all too big for a start - massive walls of rock and huge mountains. Not strange enough a landscape (and it looked VERY like some of the landscapes in Lord of the Rings) - not intimate enough. And the playfulness ? This Narnia isn't a fun place to be. We lose some of the fun of the Beavers and their house. THey cut some of the scenes which would have lightened up the narrative (like when Aslan comes to life, in the book he runs around and plays tag, and they all end up in a heap laughing and excited and HAVING FUN. In the film, he gives a roar and they are off to the next scene. In the book when they rescue Mr Tumnus they dance around for joy - in the film there are tears and hugs). Now, I can see how a country under the spell of a white witch for 100 years may not be a lot of fun, but its a long movie to sit through without some lightness. Even the crowning scene at the end is too uninvolved and not fun enough - where was the personal, the relationships ? It looked like a really dull party to me. There is also a very curious new scene, which doesn't seem to add much - involving them getting stuck on an ice floe as the snow melts. This takes up quite a bit of time for no apparent reason - I couldn't see how it added to the narrative, and again - the ice in the waterfall is grey, not sparkly and glittering. SO to sum up - good acting, interesting story - which took itself all a bit too seriously, and missed the point. Its a kids movie which has forgotten what its like to be a kid.
__label__6 A strangely disappointing experience given the quality credentials of just about all involved.The relative inexperience of the writers is clearly evident. Whether seen as a metaphor for a world without God (hell), or the Nazi regime, the cultural and social landscape of Narnia is ripe with potential, none of which is realized here. The White Witch's regime is not explored, we are not told who she is, where she came from, how or why she took over the world. She lacks any motivation or real emotional drive. Similarly, the children seem happy to throw themselves into a war without a second thought of home. Nothing in this story is ever explained, we are simply expected to accept it without question, which is a far more dictatorial representation of Christianity than Lewis ever intended. The plotting lacks energy and momentum, with no real sense of suspense. The characterization is weak and one-dimensional. But even more surprisingly from the creators of Shrek, is the complete lack of humor.The acting is sound from all but the leads. The two older children struggle to bring the necessary range of emotion to their roles, with Moseley in particular presenting a decidedly weak interpretation of heroic kingliness. The two younger children luckily make up for their on screen siblings' shortcomings, with Henley bringing the wide-eyed innocence to Lucy that the role requires, and Keynes displaying a surprising amount of subtlety as the eternally wronged and resentful Edmund. McAvoy and Swinton are both excellent and at times are required to carry the movie alone.The CGI is competent, but little more. It's always good to see Fauns and Centaurs running around, but it doesn't break any boundaries in terms of design or execution. There's none of the thrill of the vast armies of Middle Earth, or the attention to the minutiae of Narnia that is really necessary in realizing a new world from scratch.Disney clearly hopes that this will bring them the rewards that 'Lord of the Rings' brought New Line Cinema and 'Harry Potter' is bringing to Warner Brothers. But 'The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe' lacks the emotional depth, epic range, creative inventiveness and dramatic urgency of the 'Rings' trilogy. Similarly, it has none of the humor, camaraderie, charisma or charm of 'Harry Potter'. Judging from the audience that I saw it with, it will be very popular, and a sequel is very probable, but unless Narnia finds some heart and soul, the complete cycle seems unlikely.
__label__6 Monsters Vs. Aliens has some really funny moments, but by the time you get to see them on the big screen you've already seen them plenty of times on the small one. So there's not too much left to offer by buying a ticket. I thought the 3D was OK. They have a couple of moments specifically designed around flexing the 3d capabilities, but again nothing mind-blowing.The story revolves around the gigantic Susan (Reese Witherspoon) while pushing all the more interesting characters out of the spotlight. Susan is someone we've all seen in movies before. The victim of an unfortunate mishap leading her down a path she would rather not go down. So the plot follows the same course from there, feels pretty routine. Focusing more on the three other monsters would have made this a better movie. They're much more interesting and only get a small handful of moments to shine throughout the picture.That was probably the biggest letdown. Having some great comedic potential in the characters voiced by Hugh Laurie, and Will Arnett take a back seat ride. No complaints about Seth Rogen's B.O.B. though, he was great. Kiefer Sutherland was surprisingly good as the General. I underestimated his vocal range.Finally they made a big deal about Stephen Colbert playing the President, and there wasn't enough of him. All of his funny moments, except for the scene after some of the credits, saturated the coming attractions and commercials. I would have liked to see more of his character.Overall, its enjoyable. I like to see elements of classic old genres (like the classic monster movies of the 50's and 60's) brought to life in modern day CGI. I just thought this movie had more up its sleeve than it was showing me.
__label__6 I was very excited about the movie. I thought the first two mummy films were great and entertaining. Before watching The Mummy 3, I thought it looked bigger and better than the previous two. After walking out of the theater, I completely change my opinion. I was disappointed with the story, acting, and action. Yes, the action.Rick O'Connell (Bredan Fraser) is back to fight off a resurrected mummy named Emperor Han (Jet Li). Rick is joined by his son Alex (Luke Ford), wife Evelyn (Maria Bello) and Jonathan (John Hannah). They travel all the way to China and the frigid Himalayas in order to stop the mummy from conquering the world. But in order to complete his mission, Emperor Han awakes a massive 10,000 warriors (Terracota army) to finished the job once and for all. The O'Connells are up against an unstoppable army and an evil Emperor that will do anything to get the job done.The story was very interesting, but the script was not. I thought they should had focus more on the mummy than Alex's life. I felt like Jet Li didn't have enough screen time or even just the mummy. Another thing that I felt a bit disappointed was the beginning of the movie. I liked how they were introducing Emperor Han and how everything started, but it felt like a documentary after a while.I had mix reactions about the performance in the movie. I didn't have any problem with Fraser's performance. He fits his character and he was great in The Mummy and The Mummy Returns. Maria Bello was not as good as I thought she would be. She did okay, but the accent was kind of weird at times though.The action and special effects was probably the best thing in the movie. The action sequences were very good, but I thought they could have been better though. I wanted to see longer battles. Like a longer version of Jet Li fighting Michelle Yeoh and Brendan Fraser at the end of the movie. I thought Jet Li should off had a big fight with Fraser. It was suppose to be an epic one-on-one fight, but it fell short. The special effects were good and believable. I didn't have no major problem with the effects what so ever.The Mummy 3 was a fun movie to watch, but the film has it's flaws. If the the script was better, then I would have given the movie higher rating. While I'm not that interested for the next movie, I am curious to see how it turns out.
__label__6 I saw a screening of the movie this week and was not expecting much. I liked the first Mummy a lot, did not like the second Mummy as much. I would say the third Mummy is about as good as the second Mummy. It was an interesting idea to have the movie take place in Asia. The scenery was beautiful and so were the special effects. I wish I could say the same about the acting. Story has not changed much from the previous movies. Mummy rises, Mummy wants to rule world, must stop Mummy. The new wife of Brendan Fraser is not as good of an actress or as hot as the previous actress. Brendan Fraser's son was not that great of an actor either. And i was confused with how old Fraser's son was supposed to be. It looked like his son aged 22 years but Fraser only aged 2 years from the last movie, strange.Overall the movie was okay. If you are looking for a deep story, with great acting,then you chose the wrong movie.If you are looking for something to pass the time and some cool special effects then this is the movie for you.
__label__6 It has been a decade since the events of part II, and seven years since the release of that film. Imhotep and friends are now permanently embalmed, but a new kind of mummy is in its stead, not in Africa or the Middle East, but in China, the other "EAST". The year is 1947, and the O'Conells have retired from mummy adventures and wartime espionage. Evelyn has released two-best selling books based on her real-life adventures (named after the previous two movies), while Ricky O'Conell tries unsuccessfully to make a living out of fly-fishing. Alex (played by Australian actor Luke Ford) is now an adult and has dropped out of school to follow the footsteps of his parents by discovering the long-lost army of Han, the Dragon Emperor. With backing from his old professor, Roger Wilson, he achieves this goal, but suddenly receives an uninvited guest in the form of a mysterious woman named Lin (Isabella Leong). Meanwhile, the older O'Connells come out of retirement to send a diamond known as the Eye of Shangri-La back to China as a gesture to maintain solid British-Chinese relations. In Shanghai, they reunite with Jonathan, who owns Imhotep, a posh nightclub named after the antagonist of the previous two films. After arriving to the museum in which Alex has moved the Dragon Emperor to, Roger Wilson double-crosses them and, with the aid of General Yang and his second-in command Choi, they bring back to life the Dragon Emperor and a new Mummy returns to claim his share of glory in the modern world.First of all, this movie is NOT as bad as the cynics might say. I've seen films that are a lot worse than this one, and the movie's 114 mins are not wasted time in any way. Let's start with the movie's strengths: First of all, the film's assets are the special effects, which are breath-taking, and so are the highly-imaginative action sequences (especially the Shanghai chase scene). The jokes, although cornier than the previous films, still make you laugh and Maria Bello makes an acceptable replacement to Rachel Weisz, who played Evelyn in the first and second Mummy movies. Jet Li's character is an adequate substitute for Imhotep and it's nice to seem fight hand-to-hand combat in the finale.Now comes the weaknesses: the movie suffers from a number of credibility issues. First of all, Alex O'Connor seems to have aged dramatically while his parents have not, especially his father. It is awkward to see Brendan Fraser's character, who has not even aged a wink from the previous films, be the father of this young man. To me, Rick O'Connell looks more like an older brother than a father to Alex. Maria Bello is satisfying here, but Rachel Weisz had more edge. Also, I don't think this movie is trying to rehash the story of the previous films, but rather it's trying too hard to stand out from its predecessors. Lin, Alex's love interest, is an interesting newcomer to the clan, but the screenplay hinders much of that character's potential.The movie is not a bad one, but it is not that great either. It is definitely flawed, but not to the point that makes it a pain to watch. As a summer actioner, you'll never be bored as it has enough mummies, laughs, car chases, and special effects to make your money's worth and makes it stand out from your typical big-budget flick. If you're stressed out, bored, or just want to see another movie after seeing the Dark Knight many times (such as myself) then this movie is for you, and you won't regret spending 114 minutes of our time watching it. Those searchinig for "smart" films should look elsewhere.
__label__6 I loved The Mummy. I ADORED The Mummy Returms. I... was slightly entertained by Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon emperor.Characters return, the same humor comes back and several links are made with the prequels, but this movie just doesn't have the magic and suspense that the two previous movies had.The story is a little far-fetched, but it works I guess. A Chinese emperor is cursed and turns into a clay warrior (terracotta I believe it's called), along with his army. In the far future (20th century) he is brought back to life using the elixir of eternal youth (how convenient...). Now it's up to our Mummy fighters from the previous movies to put a stop to him before it's too late.The acting was a little... childish. I think they tried too hard to make this movie more 'kiddy' then the prequels. The previous movies had real scares and good, frightening moments. This film however wasn't scary at all, just a bit gory at times; but it's not much and usually looks a bit cheesy.However there is one good point: the CGI effects. There's a lot of creative eye candy in this movie. So this movie is slightly saved by the effects, but not enough to ensure a must-see status.Mummy Tomb of the Dragon Emperor is sadly a disappointment compared to the prequels. If you are a die-hard fan of the previous movies (mainly the characters), then go watch it. Just don't expect as much as you did with the prequels.In the end, this movie gets 6 out of 10 stars from me. Watchable, but not for more then once.
__label__6 I think the IMDb user rating of 6.5 perfectly encapsulates what to expect. I use the site mainly to calibrate my expectations before watching a blockbuster or decide to invest my time in giving an indie feature a chance.Suicide Squad has such star power and superhero connections that I was going to watch it no matter what the user reviews said (I always disregard critic reviews as they rarely are helpful) and feel like many viewers were going to as well.The movie has cool set pieces, action scenes and fantastic costumes. However, the plot is so muddled and choppy it detracts from the viewing experience. Another weak link is the enemy - no real backstory to draw us in, almost no explanation on what the enemy is building, and almost laughable minions for the "heroes" to combat.There are so many cool characters, I think the movie and plot would have been better served if this had been Part I of a series, rather a stand alone movie.I read an article that stated David Ayer only had six weeks to put a script together and it unfortunately it shows. I felt like I was watching a long trailer - cool and fun scenes that were disconnected from each other.I certainly won't say to pass on this, especially comic book fans, but be warned it is a let down. Especially, considering the awesome source material the director had to work with.
__label__6 A soppy movie, full of sentimental suffering, mourning and all that popular now emo-stuff. In some episodes it does work, anyhow (Rick Flagg's relation with the Enchantress has poor chemistry, but the tear- jerking does save the day). In some episodes it just annoys (there is a little hope for some better Harley-Joker sequences in the extended cut, but I'm speaking now only of the theatrical version).The film has many action scenes, not to say great, but definitely proper ones. And there are some interesting personae, Cap'n Boomerang for instance (though he is a petty copy of Dedpool, some unpleasant charisma about him can be felt). And there are idiotic scenes with the Joker. If you came to see how Harley Quinn became his true attendant, you will not see it. She just falls in love with her psycho patient, because -- Well, because it was in the script. And so ends the story of the greatest love ever between two quirks: just not shown. As if there was nothing to show.I can't say the movie is really bad (Margo Robby does all to turn it from a foolish, sentimental story into something more interesting, even at the count of simple fan-service). This is just a movie to watch when you want rest and relax. Almost no sense, absolutely no idea, characters, as it were, are to be judged only by their outlooks. Turn off your brain, just enjoy a nicely-made show.
__label__6 Suicide Squad was a disappointment to me. May be I got hooked on the hype or was expecting too much from WB. This movie had a great concept that we saw on the small screen, both TV series and animated. For some reason, those formats did it better than this theatrical release. This movie suffered from all fronts, poor writing which is the number one problem for me. The story was just all over the place with such in coherency, it's visible at every point. Not enough time was spent in developing these characters for their introduction to the big stage. Poor dialogue was another major problem which is just so stupid at some points. But Suicide Squad still could have been saved with the main plot and a great villain. Sadly that too was a major problem. The main plot didn't make sense because the movie itself went in so many directions that none of it could have come together and gel.The villain was a total failure. Nothing about this person was intriguing and just falls so flat. Story and main purpose was so awful for a big summer blockbuster. This movie probably only had about two things going for it. Majority of the casting was great including Will Smith, Margot Robbie, Viola Davis, Jared Leto, and Jai Courtney. Yes Jai Courtney, I'm shocked too. I really think his role should have been expanded. Notable miscast would be Joel Kinnaman and Cara Delevingne. Joel Kinnaman portrayal of Rick Flag was out of touch of what that character should be and for Enchantress, someone, more older with more acting depth should have been chosen over Cara Delevingne. The other thing would be, through and through it's a much better movie than Batman V Superman. I know that's not really helping but still. A weak six stars and a onetime watch.
__label__6 Did some one say comedy... this cannot be categorized as a pure comedy and it doesn't come under the cadre of Bruce Almighty and Steve Carell though he tried hard is not match to Jim Carrey. This is not a pure comedy and has its own emotional scenes to counter your comic feelings while watching the movie..... Buy your popcorn and drink before you go to the movie and don't expect to have a pain in your gut because you don't do any big laughing exercise in it. Still it has kept with its pace, being a smaller movie of less than 100 minutes adds to its advantage.It has a good script and quite a happy feeling at the end of the movie... It is good to see these kind of movies as a family outing and feel good when you see your family members smiling after the movie.
__label__6 This movie turned out to be a little better than I thought. Steve Carroll was funny as usually. The animals were cool too. Some of them were real, but a lot of them were computer generated. I thought the film sent a good message. That spending family time is important and that is what God was trying to teach the Baxter's. I liked the part that Evan couldn't cut his hair or beard and then then the Moses robes added to the effect. I have to take away some praise though with the whole ark floating though Washington DC. That was just plain silly. Wanda Sikes gets some good one liners too.FINAL VERDICT: More geared for kids. It's OK to watch once, but not good enough for more viewings.
__label__6 Evan Almighty (2007): Dir: Tom Shadyac / Cast: Steve Carell, Morgan Freeman, Lauren Graham, John Goodman, Molly Shannon: Bruce Almighty regarded the nature of God. Here we witness His power through ordinary people. Evan Baxter is elected into congress and God tells him to build an Ark. He refuses but his hair grows and animals follow him two by two. Directed by Tom Shadyac with a rushed plot but a terrific climax with flood at hand and an enormous boat. Shadyac previously made Bruce Almighty as well as The Nutty Professor. Steve Carell plays Evan with manic energy from his dealing with sudden hair growth to animals taking a sudden interest in him. Morgan Freeman returns as God as a reminder of the Biblical account of Noah. One issue that arises in the screenplay regards whether or not this flood would actually threaten all wildlife?It seems a tad unnecessary to lure in every species for a flood that takes place in a remote place. Supporting roles are complete cardboard with Lauren Graham as Baxter's wife and John Goodman as his pig-headed boss. This will not likely be placed at the top of their resumes. Molly Shannon appears but to many she will always be Mary Katherine Gallagher. On the same level as the first film although the subject matter is different in that both reference different Biblical areas. In this film God points out the theme with A.R.K. Acts of Random Kindness. Score: 6 / 10
__label__6 I'll admit it: I liked "Waterworld" . . . or parts of it, anyway. No, "Waterworld" is not exactly Shakespeare -- for that matter, it's not exactly James Cameron, either  -- but it hits a certain "Mad Max/Road Warrior" vibe that's moderately cool, and it provides a handful of decent thrills.  Should two hundred million dollars been spent on this flick?  Probably not, but I'll ask you this: Does it matter?  If you only have to plunk down three bucks to rent a movie, does it really matter what that movie's budget was, provided that you were at least slightly entertained?"Waterworld" is the story of the Mariner (Kevin Costner); a tough, grizzled loner who roams the seas of post-apocalyptic Earth.  The polar icecaps have melted, flooding the world, and land has become little more than a legend. During his travels between the tiny man-made islands that comprise the remnants of civilization, the Mariner meets a woman named Helen (Jeanne Tripplehorn) and a small girl named Enola (Tina Majorino) who claim to have knowledge -- or at least a cryptic map -- of where to find land.  Of course, a rowdy gang of pirates known as the Smokers also are aware of the fact that Helen and Enola have this knowledge; so, under the guidance of their mad leader Deacon (Dennis Hopper), the pirates try to hunt down the two.  Faced with his one slim chance of ever finding land falling into the hands of complete madmen, it's up to the Mariner to protect Helen and Enola -- and ultimately, to try and defeat the Smokers -- if he wants to keep his dreams and himself alive . . . .The premise of "Waterworld" is interesting enough; I like the fact that the film actually tries to show (at least in the opening scenes) how people would survive in a world flooded by salt water.  There's some cool flashes of originality in here regarding what the world would be like -- for example, the fact that ordinary dirt has become so valuable as to become the standard of currency -- but unfortunately, that originality gets ignored the second the action starts rolling halfway through the film.   Overall, the script isn't terrible -- however, it's quite predictable.  For example, the first part of the film is spent explaining painfully how there is no more land, and how it's just a myth . . . gee, wonder what our heroes will find towards the end of the film?  A couple of twists spring readily to mind (for example -- there genuinely is no more land, or dry land can be found far beneath the sea in domed cities, like some kind of "Atlantis", perhaps) -- one such twist would've been nice to see.  While the story does have its good moments (particularly any scene involving Dennis Hopper), it's too formulaic to be called exciting.  Nice? Yes.  Exciting? No.  The few good scenes are very, very good, but there's a lot more average -- or even dull -- scenes spread out between the sparse fun.The most puzzling part about "Waterworld", though, is the direction.  The film is loaded with action, and I'll give credit where credit is due -- nearly all of the action looks great, especially since all the fights and the action take place out on the water.  But for $200 million . . ?  It doesn't look THAT good.  I know a significant part of the film's budget was spent on floating sets out in the Pacific -- but the camera cuts and shot selections are usually so quick and tight, it's hard to notice the background.  There's no long, slow shots basking on the glory of these expensive sets.  "Waterworld" is filmed exactly like a typical action movie, which is okay, I guess, but it completely fails to take advantage of its resources.  Quite strange, to say the least.As for the cast . . . it's a mixed bag.  Kevin Costner does a very good job as the grizzled Mariner, playing against type as a hardened, almost amoral anti-hero.  It goes against the good-guy grain that Costner has typically played in most of his films, and Costner seems to relish the change.  Dennis Hopper is terrific as the villainous Deacon; the role is completely over-the-top and absolutely ludicrous at times . . . in short, the part is perfect for Hopper.  His lines simply drip with withering sarcasm, making him a quite memorable screen villain.  The rest of the cast . . . ehh. Nobody does a horrible job, but nobody's particularly memorable, either.   
Should "Waterworld" have been a $200 Million Dollar Dud?  Probably not.  In a perfect world, "Waterworld" would've been a $20 Million Dollar Sleeper, directed by John Carpenter and starring Rutger Hauer . . . or a $2 Million Dollar Cult Classic, directed by Roger Corman and starring Lorenzo Lamas. However, this isn't a perfect world (as evidenced by the fact that Freddie Prinze, Jr. keeps making movies), so "Waterworld" is forever branded as the bad film with a runaway budget.  Too bad.  "Waterworld" is by no means a great movie, but it has some entertaining moments, enough to warrant at least a rental . . . and some frequent pushes of the fast forward button. Grade: B-/C+
__label__6 This movie may have a questionable script, some sub-par actors (Some were surprisingly good for a popcorn movie which is applaudable) and some Team America style action (They seemed to cause a lot more damage to Paris then the terrorists plan to) but the film can not help but be entertaining. It has what Transformers 2 had which was good special effects, but what Transformers 2 lacked was entertainment which this movie definitely has, even if it is n't a very good movie from a movie point of view.While lots of people and critics alike are going to bag the hell out of this film, I think as long as you go in with an open mind a low expectancy of the movie to hold any sort of realism you will have a pretty good time, which is really the reason the film was made (After the money of course).Overall, this film is a good watch for non fans of the series at least but, not having seen the cartoon I cant speak for existing fans of G.I. Joe but I had a good time, and I think a lot of other people will 2 as long as they can maintain an open mind.
__label__6 The Jungle Book has been raved about by everyone I know, but now that I've finally seen it I don't quite understand what all the hype is about. It's true that the CG is nothing short of outstanding, especially considering a lot of it is done during the day instead of at night, and I'm impressed with how much they were able to accomplish, but a pretty movie and an exceptional movie are not at all the same thing; similarly, a better than average movie and an exceptional movie are not the same thing, and this movie is better than average.The writing wasn't great, but it was passable. This is a kid's movie after all, and while I don't in any way think that's an excuse for a movie to have a worse script than any other, it's important to understand that the film still needs to keep the children entertained with silly jokes and easy-to-understand dialogue. My main problem with the film was the child actor. I'm not expecting a 12-year-old kid to be able act like an A-Lister, but there was one particular shot were he screamed and I accidentally laughed in the near-silent theater because it seemed to out of place and awkward. He was also given outrageously simple and cliché lines. It was always "I'm doing this thing because of this other thing" and felt like the majority of his talking was done explaining to other characters that he had to reach is his goal instead of developing his character. There were a few scenes where he was able to act like a normal kid, and those were definitely his best performances, but overall he wasn't able to give it his all because what he was supplied with wouldn't allow him to.The other characters were played well, and the animators did a good job with the choreography of all the fights. Bill Murray was a great choice for Baloo, and at this point I can't think of any other voice that could have given a bear that much character.The songs, however, felt out of place and forced, and that's all I'm going to say about those.I do not dislike this movie in any sense, and I recommend that people go and see it. At it's heart it is a very good story, and one that I very much enjoy. I'm sure that the nostalgia of revisiting your childhood will help you enjoy it more than I did, because the only scene I'd ever seen from the 1967 movie was the one with the singing monkeys, so there wasn't a lot in the film to connect to my past.
__label__6 Saw the movie in a press screening here are my humble thoughts:Before I start with my short review of Iron Man 2, I have to say two words about Iron Man 1. I really dug the first one despite of being a little disappointed by the grand finale. Robert Downey Jr. kills it, action, humor, pacing... loved it. I'm not a big comic geek, and not that familiar with the original Iron Man comics, so please excuse if some of the stuff I thought was weird, was actually accurate adapted.So while the opening credits where rolling and I saw all the big names of actors that I happen to love, I really thought that it might be hard to give all of them a fair amount of stuff to do in the movie. And as it happened to turn out, I was right. I was especially disappointed by Mickey Rourke's part as Whiplash. Don't get me wrong, Rourke was great. He looks mean as usual and I loved every scene he's in. Unfortunately Favreau really pulled a Darth Maul on him. After the last fight I honestly sat in my chair and was like "that's it? you can't be serious?!". Rourke's Character had almost the same potential (at least from his talent as an actor and his looks in the movie) as Heath Ledger's Joker in Dark Knight. But he never lived up to that expectation due to the lack of screen time and, well... a purpose.But the main problem I had with Iron Man 2 was the lack of a meaningful story and motivation for almost all of the characters. We are introduced to Scarlett Johansson's "Black Widow", and blame it on my lack of knowledge of the graphic novels, but I had no Idea what her purpose in the movie was. The first part of the movie she's just the hot secretary with almost no lines. Eventually she puts on a tight super hero costume and tries to find Whiplash. There is a brief action-sequence, where she kicks some ass, but truth be told, Hit-Girl would wipe the floor with Black Widow. What I really liked though, was Sam Rockwell as Justin Hammer. He totally killed it and you can tell he enjoyed his part as the sleazy scumbag pulling the strings in the background.I also liked Don Cheadle as James Rhodes (he was on par with Terrence Howard on this one), but I felt his character suffered from the lack of time for character development. There is this scene, where Tony Stark is seriously messed up, partying at his home in his Iron Man suit and randomly shooting stuff. Rhodes is tired of the situation and grabs himself another one of the Iron Man suits, battles Stark and than leaves. With the suit. I don't know if that's the way it was done in the comics, but I didn't like it at all. In the first movie we witness how Stark becomes Iron Man, how he needs to learn to use the suit and become one with it, how he builds it and we can understand, that he is the only one, who could use it that way. Apparently we're wrong, because all you need, is the suit. It's like anyone could be Batman, if he just could get a hold of his cape. There is no explanation as to why Rhodes can fly this suit like he owns it, there isn't anything told about the relationship between Stark and Rhodes. I just felt this part was incredible weak.The whole movie felt like a setup for another movie. Characters are introduced, stuff happens, but nothing really matters, at best it hints, that there COULD be happening something in the future.Another big problem I had though, was the lack of 'magic moments' and thrilling action, like in the first flick (I still get goosebumps, thinking about how Tony Stark flew in his suit for the first time). Everything just runs too smooth, there is almost no tension, you never think anything could harm Tony Stark, you never feel something bad is about to happen. If I compare this with the incredible Dark Knight, it feels like a kids movie, something like the ranks of Sky High. Plus, there was just to little Iron Man in Iron Man, to little I care about. Iron Man 2 was made to prepare us for The Avengers and Thor, but by being that, it kinda forgot to be something in it's own. That's the biggest difference to the first flick, who was original, fresh and smart.Sounds pretty much like a bash, but all that being said, I was fairly entertained. The performances of the main characters each were pretty good. The cast was perfect. Of course all the special effects are amazing, with a lot attention to detail. I loved all the 'augmented reality" stuff going on in Starks garage. The movie is funny (actually it felt more like a comedy than an action flick) and when the action happens, it's looking great. The biggest let down is the potential this movie and most and for all the characters had, which wasn't used. However this is only the review of someone who's fairly unfamiliar with the graphic novel.
__label__6 A well-intentioned and interesting plot based on the characters created by Stan Lee , following the events developed in ¨Iron Man I ¨ and repeating the main actors . Because of his superhero alter ego, Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr) must contend with deadly issues involving the government, his own friends and new enemies . With the world now learns of his dual life as Stark is submitted to the armored pressure from the government, the press, and the public to share his technology with the military , being only helped by SHIELD agency formed by colonel Nick Fury (Samuel L. Jackson) and Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson) . Unwilling to let go of his invention, Stark, along with Pepper Potts (Gwyneth Paltrow), and James "Rhodey" Rhodes (Don Cheadle) at his side, must forge new alliances and battle evil enemies as Vanko (Mickey Rourke) and Justin Hammer ( Sam Rockwell).Nice performance by Rober Downey Jr as superhero Iron Man, the billionaire inventor named Tony Stark who faces powerful enemies . This spectacular comic-book movie contains fantasy, noisy action, humor ,romance , thrills and is pretty entertaining. This is a dynamic, fast- paced and entertaining movie . Full of action , it's complemented by exciting images, thrills and breathtaking scenes , including groundbreaking computer generator special effects. The picture relies in terrific flying sequences , rousing fighting, and relentless pursuits. The moving story is made believable and the script has more pace to it than former film titled ¨Iron Man I¨ also directed by Jon Favreau ; both movies result to be an intense variation on Stan Lee's comic book creation. Our superhero, well incarnated by Downey Jr dons splendidly the metallic armor , for that reason he can to be identified with the rest of his life as Iron Man and he deserves credit for remaining true to character. Breathtaking array of technical effects with impressive set pieces illuminate the Iron Man's full-blown adventures. The amazing plot is pure entertainment and with screenplay by the actor Justin Theroux, based on characters created by Stan Lee, as usual appears in a brief cameo . Overwhelming production design , though full of digital effects with impressive scenes and portentous fights . Stirring musical score fitting to action by John Debney and colorful cinematography by Matthew Libatique .The motion picture is professionally directed by Jon Favreau , an ordinary secondary actor who triumphs as director with ¨Zathura¨, ¨Elf¨ and of course in this ¨Iron Man 2¨ . Rating : Interesting and passable sequel .
__label__6 Iron Man 2 isn't as bad of a movie that people say it is, although it isn't great either.
It is one of the weakest movies in the MCU, which was a surprise especially when Iron Man 1 was one of the best MCU movies.Tony stark doesn't have the same motivations and doesn't care if people get hurt, which is completely out of character for him, since he started being a Superhero because he realized how many people his weapons were harming.Not a good movie, watch it only if you really like Robert Downey Jr. Otherwise skip this movie.
__label__6 The movie is good (not great, though), specially because of the visual effects and Charlize Theron acting. She is great, beautiful, impressive, plays her role full of passion, as usual. Also I think there was no need for a 127 minutes picture. It could last less time, because in some moments I felt like they were just dragging it for no reason. I expected more, but all the problem is with Snow White choice. Kristen Stewart is like my refrigerator, no matter what I put in it (milk, soda, eggs, vegetables, meat), it is and it will always be a refrigerator. And so is she. She is always the same, no matter what role she is playing. If she can be an actress, so can my refrigerator. They are both cold and have no expression.
__label__6 As an avowed fan of the original Planet of the Apes films and the 2011 reboot Rise of the Planet of the Apes, it was with some anticipation that I awaited this latest instalment in the prequel series. Maybe I had my expectations too high, or maybe the film is just missing that something special, but I left the cinema feeling a little underwhelmed. Of course, the motion capture effects are amazing, the post-apocalyptic atmosphere is suitably bleak (power supplies have almost been exhausted and the human populace is in panic mode) and there is action aplenty, which might very well be the problem. You see, as strange as it may seem given that the majority of characters are apes, Dawn of the Planet of the Apes is very typical in both its characterisations and narrative structure.Directed by Matt Reeves (Cloverfield, Let Me In), Dawn of the Planet of the Apes picks up the story 10 years after the events of the previous film with the vast majority of the earth's population having been wiped out; either by the ALZ-113 virus or the violence that broke out as panic set in. A group of survivors have etched out an existence amongst the remnants of what was once San Francisco, but fuel supplies have been exhausted and an alternate power source must be found. Meanwhile, in the forests north of the city, the burgeoning ape population is living peacefully under the rule of Caesar (Andy Serkis), a benevolent dictator of sorts. When a group of humans led by Malcolm (Australia's Jason Clarke) head into the forest in an effort to repair a dam that could potentially generate power for the city, conflict ensues. Despite the best efforts of Caesar and Malcolm to hash out a peaceful co-existence between the two groups, ignorance and distrust abounds and the tensions escalate. There are the requisite bad guys on each side – Gary Oldman's Dreyfus for the humans and the scarred Koba (Toby Kebbell) for the apes – whose actions ultimately result in war between the two groups.The attitudes and actions of key characters are a reflection of what has been happening around the world for as long as we can remember. Koba's experiences in captivity have left him with a bitter hatred of all humans, an attitude that reflects ways in which certain groups today (such as the Islamic community) are marginalised because of the actions of a few. Dreyfus, on the other hand is of the arrogant belief that they are "just apes" and thereby don't pose a serious threat. Again, how many times in history have we seen such situations where one group has such an overwhelming sense of superiority over another that they feel utterly justified in their desire to use force in an effort to secure what they want. Of course Caesar and Malcolm, who have developed a mutual respect and know that such conflict is completely unnecessary, are caught in the middle as war breaks out. The parallels to conflicts such as those in the Middle East are obvious and it is this distinct lack of subtlety that prevents the film from soaring as an engaging narrative. Reeves was obviously conscious of the need to appease an action-obsessed audience desperate for a fix of mayhem and chaos and such a focus prevents the film from offering any genuine insight into what is an utterly intriguing premise.There is still much to appreciate in what has been achieved on a technical and aesthetic level. The motion capture work is brilliant and, even if there are a few moments where some of the apes don't look quite real, the creation of the forest world and the apes who inhabit it is remarkable; certainly a far cry from Roddy McDowall in costume in the first Planet of the Apes in 1968. As Caesar, Andy Serkis is fabulous and it is great to see that he is duly credited as the star of the film. The casting of Clarke as Norman is a good choice because he doesn't bring any pre-conceived audience expectations or the baggage of previous roles that might burden a higher profile actor. Whilst Clarke is quietly effective as Norman, fellow Aussie Kodi Smit-McPhee has little to do as his son Alexander, while Keri Russell's Ellie is the convenient love interest with requisite medical training. Perhaps the biggest disappointment amongst the cast is seeing a talented actor like Oldman confined yet again to a one-dimensional role as a bombastic, narrow-minded douchebag. Whilst there are elements that impress, Dawn of the Planet of Apes possesses neither the intelligence nor the heart of its predecessor.
__label__6 I paid $14.50 to watch this movie at 34st LOEW's, and feel like I got $4.50 worth of my hard earned money. Not only was this movie too long, but it bored me, and I was more confused than before.*** spoilers *** I was hoping for a resolution or at least some hint at whatever happened to the astronauts launched into space in PotA I, but nothing here on that track. The original PotA(1968) starts off with astronauts landing on some unknown (to them at the time) planet; however, thus far we've gotten no suspense as to what they'll encounter when (and if) they land somewhere in this re-boot. We get a back-story from part I as to how humans became dumb and apes smart; in part II we get... exactly what I have no idea.Apes living in what appears to be a village, having no contact with humans. Humans live in some run-down city (San Fran), are running out of fuel, they need to re-start the dam to get electric power going. Ifcourse, the dam just happens to be within ape territory. Shenanigans and all sorts of shoot 'em ups ensue.Now, yes, the CGI and ape movements are much more realistc than in PotA '68, and perhaps even in 2001 '68. But, we again get ape vs. humans fight scenes, an evil doer who challenges his leader, etc.I am beginning to think that the PotA reboot of 2001 made more sense, for those who cared to think about the cause-effect time-lines loop. At least it did have a time traveling astronaut who was confused as to where he was and what was going on.Since other humans were contacted, is a bigger army of humans supposed to come to the rescue? I sure hope PotA III will address these questions.
__label__6 This is essentially an epic love story which was supposed to have transcended time and space. Josh Hartnett plays dual characters: one as a diver/archaeologist type in the 21st Century and the second being a Scotsman working under the British colonials in the Indian subcontinent in the 17th Century. Tamsin Egerton plays his wife in the 21st Century and Bipasha Basu plays his love interest in 17th Century India. Having read an interview by director Roland Joffé about the film, I was expecting much more involvement of quantum physics to be present in the film. Not necessarily the entire film to be explaining the theory but at least more play on parallel universe and different realities. I was expecting more sci-fi along the lines of the Source Code or Interstellar. Instead what we got was Titanic crossed with Bollywood. If you are a sci-fi fan then you may be disappointed but if you are a romance fan then you may enjoy the film. Think Time Traveller's Wife, The Age of Adaline and other paranormal romances.
__label__6 First of all, don't just take the rating on IMDb granted, I check too but do not go in prejudice.The movie is acceptable to watch, have good locations, camera work, and a strong message to carry from the beginning. Its just somewhere in the last quarter of the movie the message didn't get delivered. As we know it falls under fantasy genre, we can be prepared for some magic but the failure steps in when the non-logical things are projected bluntly over the base principle of the concept itself. It cannot be "Love is stronger to travel through time to save one another but its too blunt so don't ask questions !".The fourth quarter may be the result of being handled by a different director or a fight with production company or a massive failure on the editing front but one way or another, it did bad !It's a little boring in the middle but watchable.
__label__6 2nd review ever, only to shove it in all the pompous amateur critics on this site who almost made me turn away from this entertaining adventure-rom....yes not everything is spot on, mainly how the ring ended up on the ship....use your imagination folks, if any of these reviewers paid attention , the main characters brother was under his direct command .....ya so hard to figure out....disregard the other reviews who hate all but masterpieces...solid heartwarming movie with adventures action and drama...and the cinematography is breathtaking. must add....historical fans don't worry, the modern plot comprises 10 min or so of the movie and could have been left out...cheers to a farm in Massachusetts!
__label__6 It never bodes well for a film when its release date is delayed - much less when it's been pushed back a whole year, ostensibly to accommodate reshoots that would bump up Keanu Reeves' completely imaginary role in a Western blockbuster take on a classic, awe-inspiring tale right out of the Japanese history books. That way lies disaster and madness, one would think - and certainly the bland, monster-heavy trailers for 47 Ronin did the film no favours. Smack down your inner critic, however, and this epic fantasy flick - for that's what it is - turns out to be reasonably palatable fare.The bare bones of the true story are all there: the kindly Lord Asano (Min Tanaka) is ordered to commit seppuku - ritual suicide by disembowelment - when he almost mortally offends Lord Kira (Tadanobu Asano - a nicely ironic name if ever there was one). This renders all the honourable samurai in Asano's service masterless i.e., ronin. Led by the noble Oishi (Hiroyuki Sanada), the loyal band of 47 ronin vow to avenge Asano - even though they have been ordered by their Shogun (top military commander) not to do so.What's less accurate, of course, is pretty much all the rest of it. Reeves plays Kai, a half-British, half-Japanese orphan who's taken in by Asano but treated like an outcast by everyone in the household - except, of course, for Asano's loving daughter Mika (Kou Shibasaki). Kira's nefarious plans have the support of Mizuki (Rinko Kikuchi), a witch who can apparently take any form she likes: wolf, snake or dragon. It's all a bit nonsensical, especially when Kai tries to get swords for the ronin amongst some pretty creepy folk who have gone from society's outcasts to being part of what looks like a supernatural cult.In other words, 47 Ronin is a faintly ridiculous addition to the wealth of Chūshingura - fictionalised accounts of the 47 ronin tale - that already exist in Japan. It's the kind of big, dumb blockbuster in which the good guys literally live to die another day as long as the plot calls for it. These fearless ronin even survive when the villain is protected by a witch with crazy mystical powers! She can set an entire field on fire, create poisonous spiders and turn into a dragon! And the ronin - at least 47 of them - live anyway! It's crazy! That's what makes it all the more surprising when 47 Ronin turns out to be... well,actually not half-bad. Once you've accepted the sillier aspects of the film for what they are, it's easy to get swept along by its very earnest drama and spectacle. Reeves' storyline is a made-up jumble of nonsense, but is played very straight - this is, in effect, Sad Keanu: The Movie - and it just about works. Casting Reeves as the outsider allows him to do what he does best: play the role with stony-faced reserve, whether he's levelling up by battling demons in cage matches or pining moodily after Mika. Kai's restrained love story with Mika is fairly predictable stuff, with the girl fading a little too much into the background (don't expect any bloodletting from Shibasaki, Battle Royale fans), but it's salvaged by the rather non-Hollywood way in which it all ends.For all that Reeves takes centre stage in the publicity campaign, the film belongs just as much to Sanada's Oishi. He undertakes a more arduous emotional journey: one that takes him from grudging to full-hearted acceptance of Kai's worth as a warrior and comrade. His relationship with his family is more fully examined than Kai's unwavering loyalty to the Asano clan. As Oishi plots his course of action, one that will bring him shame for disobeying the Shogun even as he avenges his master, he warns his wife and son Chikara (Jin Akanishi) to disavow him. Their reactions provide some of the most emotionally resonant moments in the entire film.All things considered, the title of the film is a bit of a misnomer - it would more accurately be called 2 Ronin, subtitled Oishi And Kai's Excellent Adventure - and it suffers from a lamentable lack of humour and historical accuracy. But it's not a complete travesty. Tucked away beneath a layer of mystical beasts and witches lies a story with enough heart, nobility and soul to survive even the oddest twists and turns.
__label__6 A band of samurai who have lost there master set out to avenge his treacherous death at the hands of Lord Kira. Enter Kai, a humble "half breed" with more to him than meets the eye, with catching favor with the fallen Lord's daughter, Kai must join the 47 Ronin to not only avenge his honor but save the woman he loves..Very visually appealing with a nice blend of action and a wonderful nod to ancient Japanese mythology. I felt though that there could have been more to the story, simple and clichéd in some areas but overall an enjoyable film. Keanu does a decent job with his part but the true meat and potatoes comes from Hiroyuki Sanada, who does a masterful job in his portrayal as the chief ronin, Ôishi . The true pleasure and joy within this film is its nod and ode to the ancient Japanese mythology of the time, which in my opinion is done very well. Some may not understand the conclusion of this film but in a little learned knowledge of the culture one would see it for what it was intended for.. All in all an enjoyable movie and film for any fan of action films and historical fantasy.
__label__6 Contains mild spoilers:For those who aren't familiar with the 47 Ronin, this film does it's best to bring the legend to the rest of the world. Although the film contains some great visuals, sets, music and costume design, infusing the story with fantasy elements and some new characters in an attempt up the action and appeal to a global audience is it's greatest weakness. The story of the 47 ronin is uniquely Japanese. It's the concept of bushido and how much one, or many, is willing to tarnish their honor in order to restore justice. Unfortunately things have been simplified a bit too much and all we are left with is a rather typical action- driven revenge plot that could have benefited from being slightly more character-driven. The original story contains a much more intricate build-up to the final confrontation that not only tests the groups patience, but their leader's resilience and cunning. Unfortunately, this film does away with these elements that made the original story so compelling. As good as the actors are (particularly Hiroyuki Sanada and Tadanobu Asano), i was definitely wanting more character development and drama throughout the film. Keanu's character as an outcast is an interesting addition although he doesn't really get much to do. His arc was fine but the character deserved more moments to shine. The villains were fine but could've been deeper. It would have been nice for Rinko Kikuchi's character to have some back story in order to pit her against Keanu in a more emotionally driven confrontation. After all, these characters were created for the film, so why not add an extra layer of depth. I can understand the desire to want to do away with the philosophical musings of bushido and character drama in order to push the action and fantasy elements, but the action, although generally exciting and visually interesting, lacked impact. I feel they missed an opportunity to really showcase the awesome fighting abilities of the samurai, instead opting for some CGI creatures and demons and a couple of averagely-lit night battles. The cut-aways seemed to cheapen the experience for me, especially during the seppuku scenes. It seemed to have been framed a bit too closely and the sound was a bit off. No doubt in order to keep it's pg-13 rating. Nonetheless, there were some truly moving moments and I found myself ultimately enjoying the film. Illan Eshkeri's score helped elevate the film's emotional scenes and I found myself with tears in my eyes at certain points during the film. Overall, I found the film to be serviceable. It had a lot of potential and it was better than expected, although I dared to hope for more. Some genuinely emotional moments and serviceable action and effects make this a good but flawed film.
__label__6 I knew this movie was bad from reviews, but I went to see it anyways because I like Reeves and hoped for some good entertainment. Well, the movie happened to be really... bad.First of all, movie starts stupidly with a narrative of Reeves raised as a child from tengo-demons yet a minute later you are told he is so... gentle. In a few minutes they tell you the daughter of the clan leader and he are deep in love and this is character development the movie is based on. I do not mind if they put a white guy as the lead and tainting the real legend with some love story if executed well. But because of dull, stupid, clichéd dialog and bad acting the movie is predictable, mechanic, unconvincing and damn straight stupid. It is an insult to the original story of the 47 ronin. It is a movie telling to you "I am a legendary movie because I am telling you so". They added fantasy fairy tale twist to the original story. This could work if the ronins were trying to reach the enemy castle fighting waves of enemies and assassins, falling in traps, having heroic deaths ...but actually ALL the fights in the movie besides the final battle are short, dull and irrelevant to story line. In fact the trailer contains all the good moments. And no, there is no cool tattooed guy to fight with. There is no real demon monk fight as shown in the trailer. By the way, Buddhist tengu demons training killers to protect their "beliefs"? I mean, really? Next - the BIG guy in the movie everyone expected to serve as a minor boss and have a great eye candy duel with, gone in a second blown by a bomb. The enemy clan leader - running and fighting like a pussy in the end. The final boss fight happened with the dragon-witch...and our hero used his magical power cheat-cheesy move to kill the dragon, the same magical power he has from the start of the story but never used before? All those fights from the trailer are so short and unimportant you just know they put it there as fillers. Probably for this reason you see no more than ten ronins in most scenes. One of the guys specifically says they are 47 because you would never believe they are more than 15 till the final scene. Where nobody is seen to use the magical swords they were given by the demons in any special way.200 ml dollars spent on this movie? Hollywood product placement idiocy. They should rather have made this movie a psychological drama with an epic real played battle in the end rather than waste cash on computer animations.
__label__6 After three films of diminishing quality, more than anything, Shrek Forever After begs the obvious question: why? Unfortunately the answer is also all too obvious with the franchise having grossed one billion dollars domestically and oodles more overseas. For what it's worth, this instalment is better than the last but fails to hold a candle to Shrek 2 and pales to the point of apparition when compared to the original.The characters that populate the "Shrek" universe remain as endearing as ever in principle, but after four movies there is little that can be done to keep them animated, so to speak. That is why it comes as no surprise that the plot of this film has the mythical land of Far Far Away being turned on its head by the devious Rumplestiltskin, morphing all familiarity into a bizzaro world of sort, and I'll admit, it does add an iota of charm to the proceedings. Shrek (Mike Myers) finds himself tired of family life with his ogre wife Fiona (Cameron Diaz) and longs for his bachelor days of terrifying townsfolk and signs a contract with 'Rumple' as he is less than affectionately called. Things don't turn out nearly as he imagined and Shrek must fulfil a loophole in the contract to turn things back to the way they were.The original gang all return along with Shrek and Fiona. We have the swashbuckling Puss in Boots (Antonio Banderas), the chatty Donkey (Eddie Murphy) and Julie Andrews and John Cleese as the Queen and King respectively. There are also a number of celebrity voice cameos including Larry King and Regis Philbin and all add up to a lively time at the movies. In the movies defence, the lack of freshness never translates to boredom.The biggest issue with Shrek the Third was the weak attempt to inflate the voice cast, making things more monotonous yet. DreamWorks has clearly learned from this mistake and in addition to tweaking the familiar character's personas in this alternate reality, find a decent villain in Rumplestiltskin (Walt Dohrn) along with great comedians the likes of Craig Robinson and Jane Lynch. The animation is as stellar as ever and it never ceases to amaze how lifelike a film can look that has a talking donkey at its center.What makes this descendant of Shrek somewhat distinguishable is that it presents itself more as homage then adhering to the spoof ideology that characterized the others. Shrek Forever After is part Aladdin, part Bedazzled and more than a sprinkle of It's a Wonderful Life. There are also many more laughs in this film than the previous, and can often be attributed to site gags sprung from the new universe (an obese Puss in Boots provokes more than a few guffaws).What everyone has to remember, first and foremost, is that the "Shrek" franchise is meant for children and I don't believe any of the four instalments could disappoint an eight year old. It is the accompanying adults that need to be wary of the growing tedium in the franchise, but thanks to a plethora of talented actors and a significantly more satisfying storyline, Shrek Forever After makes for an entertaining diversion, even if it's no longer magical.
__label__6 For the first 10 minutes this film is a delight. The filmmakers and animators must have worked themselves into a frazzle to get this amount of detail and style into the film - the human characters look as if they were both rotoscoped AND computer animated, and all the inanimate or inorganic elements of the film - the landscapes, the houses, the trees, the Polar Express itself - are dazzling. If the movie had been a 22 minute 'short' (a la "Merry Christmas, Charlie Brown"), it would have been one of the all time classics of Christmas animation. Unfortunately, Zemeckis and company felt they needed to expand "Polar Express" into a feature length movie, and the source material can't hold up to the extended length.Face it, one of the great strengths of the children's book this movie adapts is the brevity and economy of its literary style - supplemented by evocative fantasy visuals that augment, not replace, the poetic resonance of the carefully chosen words. But here, the writers have to add extra plot elements, characters and dialog to the basic 'text' to extend it to feature length, and they just don't have the ability to triple the content while maintaining the magic of the original source. It's as if the Hallmark Card composers tried to expand on the works of Robert Frost - they can ape the style, but they can't get the resonance or the heart. It's well meant and agreeable, but it somehow misses the point.It's also got Eddie Deezen doing one of the voices, which is always a minus for me. Deezen is still doing voice work after 20+ years in the business, so someone must like him, but all I can say for him is that he must be dependable and reliable...because he turns in his usual sinkhole of nasal suck. Sorry Eddie, I know you need the work, and it's nothing personal, but I hate you as an actor.Tom Hanks, on the other hand, is his usual splendid self, and it's largely due to his efforts that I can enjoy the thinned out content of the various over-extended sequences. He puts so much warmth and dry humor into the various characters he voices that it almost gets this film over...if not for him, I would rate this film much lower.Another problem: after a while, it is apparent that the animators are running out of ideas. For instance, they use a reverse 'zoom' pull back crane shot shot - that pulls back from a crowd to show the spectacle of hundreds of figures from an eagle eye view - way too much. It was sensational when it was used for the first time in "Gone With The Wind", and it's great here the first time they use it, but after a while, you can tell they're doing it again and again because they don't know what else to do. And there are a lot of musical numbers and dance scenes (a la "Shrek") that work fine at first, but really don't add anything to the story or the atmosphere. My favorite - the "Hot Chocolate" scene - is typical; it's light hearted and kind of clever, but Disney and Pixar do this kind of thing much better, and they integrate the musical numbers into the plot better. And I hate to say it, but sometimes the art direction slips a bit and the gloriously life-like faces of the children and the train crew alarmingly devolve into the death-masks of soulless zombies. (This happens all the time in the cut-scenes for video-games). This is the peril of making computer animation as 'realistic' as possible - if every aspect of the production is not dead on, humans will look like the walking dead. This may be inevitable when you're doing a feature length animation , even when you are budgeted for 'state of the art', but it really detracts from the charm and sentimentality the movie is trying to instill.I only rate this as a "6", but it's a STRONG "6", and there is enough to enjoy about this movie (especially the railway travel and boarding sequences of the Express itself) that I will gladly watch it again with any 8 year olds in the TV room who insist on seeing it during Christmas vacation. And there are times when the visuals are gorgeous enough to make an adult 'BELIEVE' again, if only for a second.
__label__6 I think I know why so many didn't like the latest Independence Day-movie. As most of us know, our feelings and opinions about a movie weighs mostly on how it ends. If it's a great movie with a bad ending, you'll leave the cinema or sit in your sofa feeling disappointed and then you'll attribute that feeling to the entire movie. I enjoyed the movie, it captured the tone of the first one very well - very cheesy, action packed and humorous. The two biggest problems however was the duration and ending. Without giving anything away, it ends too abruptly. I get the idea, but ending a movie like that almost never works, especially not when the original movie ended the way it did: with a spectacular burning debris rain. This just... ends. The other problem I had with it was that they tried to cram in too much in just two hours. The first one had a perfect pacing, almost just as much sh*t happening as it was in this one. But the fact that it was a whole 30-minutes shorter made half the movie seem rushed, especially the second half. Which is too bad because it had potential to be just as good as the original. Other than that, it was pretty spot on. I especially enjoy the fact that it doesn't hold off any cheese, like the trend we've seen in most of our latest sci-fi epics. Everything's so dark and gritty nowadays and it's nice to see this movie take a step backwards towards what made the original movie so special. I give it a 6/10. Good, enjoyable popcorn flick. Could be better, but could've been a hell of a lot worse.
__label__6 I know it's easy to put "Terminator 3" down. Everybody had great expectations and it was clear that this movie would have lots of enemies, especially if someone else than Cameron was going to direct. So, here it is now, T3, and the truth is, it is a good action movie, just not as good as Terminator 1 & 2.What I liked best about this movie is that it doesn't include any martial arts. Since "The Matrix" came out, I often wondered if it would even be possible to make an action movie without Kung Fu anymore. Also, Mostow really tried to not only focus on the action but include some story and character development, too. The problem is, the story is nowhere near as good as it used to be. The writers mistook character development for endless whiney monologues by John Connor, supposed leader of mankind. Where Cameron always found the right balance between someone explaining what was going on and action scenes, T3 fell into the trap of slowing down too often.What's bothering me even more, is that writers really had a lot of chances to turn Terminator 3" into an interesting story that picked up from the end of T2. I hoped that finally we'd get an explanation for why only one Terminator is sent back at a time, how the time portal works, how CyberDyne recreated the information on future technology after it had been destroyed in part 2, etc. Instead writers gave vague or no hints at all to previous riddles and went away too far from the original ideas of Terminator". No fate but what we make for ourselves" we were told in parts 1 & 2. Now it has changed to Judgement Day is inevitable". Why is that, you may ask yourself and why would a Terminator know that? It's only one of many things that don't really make sense. A fact that's even more annoying when you think about how perfect the series has been so far. Sure, James Cameron had also made mistakes (John's and Sarah's age, for instance) but the main story did always make sense.Mostow obviously was afraid of stepping into Cameron's shoes and be compared to him, so he decided to put several nods to the previous movies in sequel no. 2. Nice thought, but T3 is definitely too much of a nod" to T1 & T2. It's part parody, part rip-off that has only few new elements. Again there are two Terminators, one brand new, one obsolete, we get a spectacular car chase, desert scenes, etc. Furthermore, we get a funny version of the bar scene at the beginning and a funny" cameo by infamous psychiatrist Dr. Silberman. Yes, some of the jokes are actually quite funny, but really, why would the Terminator smash the gay glasses? Come on, this is supposed to be a serious movie! The worst thing about all this repeating old stuff is that this time there's no suspense whatsoever. It just feels like we've seen it before and we know exactly what's coming.One scene that could have brought a cool twist to the movie was the one where Arnold gets reprogrammed by the T-X. It would have been so cool, if the T-800 had turned into the bad guy again now. It would have showed that a machine knows no loyalty. Instead we got the most stupid scene ever in a Terminator" movie: John Connor asks the T-800 not to kill him and the Terminator obeys. Reese said in part 1 It can't be bargained with" and now John did just that. Sad. I couldn't believe what I was seeing. And what's with John Connor? Isn't he the one who will go on to lead mankind? In T3, he isn't much of a leader to me. Is it the writers fault or Nick Stahl's, I don't know, but the character is such a sissy in this movie, it's painful.About the T-X: why the hell isn't that thing bigger, stronger, faster? The T-X has no real improvements compared to the T-1000 and it seems to be really stupid. How else could it lose to the trashy T-800? And why did it change back to its known form just before it could have killed Kate Brewster in the disguise of her fiancé. Why would it walk around with the same face all the time, anyway? (Granted, that's a question that T2 had already raised and not answered) Although Kristinna Loken played her part quite well, I think it was a bad decision to have a woman play the T-X in the first place. How cool is it to watch Big Ol' Arnold beat up a girl? There are so many more minor mistakes in this movie it gives me headaches (why was the T-800 already programmed to not kill innocent people and look for the keys in the car when it was a different Terminator than the one in part 2? If Arnie is not programmed to answer John's questions why did he answer when John asked if he was gonna kill him? Why did the T-X investigate the place where Kate Brewster works at night? Why didn't the T-X try to reprogram the T-800 from the beginning? Why has the Terminator never used the little atom bomb chip, he's carrying within, against an enemy?), but I think I better stop here.However, I did like the ending a lot as it's the only real improvement to the whole story and an open door for a sequel. "Terminator 3" is still the best action movie of this summer and it feels really good to see Arnie back in action one more (last?) time.
__label__6 No matter what people say Terminator 3 was a turkey.The tone was wrong and bad decisions were made in the casting and character phase of the film.Sarah Conner is feebly written out of this story and the film suffers badly for missing her presence.There is also too much self referential parody,there are times when Arnie is made to look silly through the use of badly timed and misjudged comedy moments.I partly blame Jonathan Mostow,he held the reigns on this one and would have had a big say in how it all played out.I couldn't believe they went as far to copy the scene in T2 when Arnie gets his leathers in the bar only this time he gets them from a gay bar and ends up wearing 70's style plastic Elton John style glitz glasses instead of his iconic shades.This was embarrassing.Ed Furlong is replaced by the inferior Nick Stahl and Clare Danes is just filler. The Terminatrix doesn't really come off although Kristianna Loken tries her best.In all this is a hugely disappointing experience for people that have followed Terminator films so far.It has some great standalone action sequences but as a whole is a lazy retread that indulges parody and comedy far too much divorcing itself from the serious tone set by the previous two films.
__label__6 I will keep this short for the sake of not spoiling anything.Right off i should say I love Nolan. I adore most of his movies, and Interstellar is no exception. It is a marvelous piece of work whose visuals will be hard to forget. His shots of space and the way he played with colors is rather masterful. Maybe i expected it to be greater than what i saw, but even though i was moved by the movie i did not quite feel like he created something great with 'Interstellar.' This could be attributed maybe to his overuse of sentimentalism in the father-daughter relationship he creates. Nolan really tries to make you cry with this one. I have never seen him use such powerful emotions in his movies; however that is not necessarily a good thing for this movie, given that he uses his time trying to develop a family relationship at the expense of flow and congruency. Again, the Visuals are completely off the charts. The visual imagery is truly beautiful and something that Nolan has always excelled at. Given that the most visually stunning movie in recent years, Gravity, recently came out, Interstellar does not lag behind and shows you a spectacle of Visual effects.He will most likely win Visual effects at the Oscars. The Hans's score is marvelous and will most likely earn an Oscar nomination. Matthew Mcconaughey's acting is good, but nothing stellar, especially coming off the best acting role of his career. He plays the character like it should be played, but Nolan's characters never being truly drawn out or rounded does not help him any.The same can be said for the rest of the cast. The little girl was marvelous though. I do not want to reveal any piece of the story whatsoever, but i have to say, it is one of the most original scripts i've ever seen. Ultimately this movie is entertaining. There is no way Nolan can miss that. Another great thing that Nolan excels at is INSPIRING. By the time the credits rolled and people walked out, I sat there still in awe at the strong sense of human will the movie conveys. Personally, I don't think this is Nolan's best. I believe Memento stands as his masterpiece. But with Nolan, everyone has their own favorite movie. Maybe for some, Interstellar will be their favorite movie, for it is really Nolan's most ambitious and visually-striking work. By the way, Anyone else who even tries to compare Interstellar to "2001: A Space Odyssey" is out of their mind. Kubrick's mission was to create art. Nolan in "Interstellar" sets to awe and inspire its audiences. It is truly a great piece of work.
__label__6 I cannot ignore facts. I cannot ignore mistakes and plot holes, bad writing, or bad marketing. I cannot ignore hype, especially when it's already on the IMDb top 250, it received praise from critics, cashed in a lot of money, and people call it stunning and unforgettable. The simple truth is that Inception does not live up to the hype. Let me start with the trailer. All the coolest things (the folding city, the collapsing cliffs, the train in the street) are totally unessential to the plot. None of that takes more than a few seconds. So why did they put them on all the posters as well? Nevermind. I'll move on to the real problems of the movie.So I heard all these people saying how complex the movie is. How I'll need to watch it twice. How the shocking ending will blow my mind. I knew exactly what that "shocking ending" would be half way through the film. The very last paragraph of this review deals with the ending. It's not exactly a spoiler but you can skip it if you don't want to know anything.Cobb (DiCaprio) takes on a mission to implant a thought into Fischer's (Murphy) mind. As a reward, his contractor Saito (Watanabe) will clean his record with the LAPD. Cobb is wanted for the murder of his wife and consequently he can't return to USA and see his children. Throughout the movie, this is Cobb's main inner conflict, that before he fled the country, he didn't get a chance to see the kids' faces and he wants to see them again. Michael Cain has a very small role as their grandpa and DiCaprio's father-in-law. Why doesn't Cain take the kids someplace so they could be with their father? People move all the time. Or why doesn't he send Cobb some home movies if he wants to see their faces so much? They could even have video calls and all that stuff. It's a long distance relationship but it's something. Well, apparently no one thought of that, and so the main character's main motivation for his actions makes no sense. As for acting, DiCaprio was good. But if you've seen Shutter Island, You've seen a third of Inception. Dead wife, small kids, a sense of loss, a pretty wooden house in a field, all those flashbacks Teddy had in Shutter Island it's all in Inception. Minus the funny Boston accent.The mission these mind thieves embark on is to plant an idea into a rich guy's mind. This is called inception. Hence the title, I guess. Everyone says it's impossible to do, so you know they are going to succeed in the end. Inception is essentially a heist movie, but instead of getting into a vault, Cobb's team has to get inside someone's mind – which happens to look like a vault. The supposed complexity of the movie boils down to the idea of a dream within a dream. Basically, imagine that once you are plugged inside the matrix, you plug yourself into yet another, deeper, matrix. There, I just explained the super complex plot of the movie. But in case that wasn't enough, there is Ellen page's character, Ariadne. She is the obligatory new member of the team that is introduced to represent the audience and their questions. I'm fine with that. Every movie has one of those uninitiated people. The thing is, she understands everything too quickly and becomes suddenly becomes the most competent character. Pretty convenient, if you ask me.Let me finally get to the mission. It's the worst part of the movie. Watanabe wants Murphy, who just inherited a huge corporation, to dissolve it, because it was going to become a huge monopoly. So Watanabe hires DiCaprio to plant the idea of splitting the company in Murphy's mind. And so they do that. For two and a half hours. But I don't care if he splits the big company or not. Why should I care if Murphy has a bigger company than Watanabe? The stakes of the movie aren't high, they are nonexistent. I am not given any reason to care about whether or not they succeed. I'm only given more and more action set pieces to look forward to, and a lot of cool slow motion and zero gravity fights reminiscent of The Matrix, but I'm not given any reason to care for what is happening. I liked Watanabe's character only because I like Ken Watanbe. As for Saito himself, I don't give a damn if his competitor destroys his company or not. They don't tell us what consequences it would have, they don't show us what happens with the company, they don't do anything with this initial idea. Which is strange, because the movie is all about ideas being important. Okay, so I didn't like the plot and the acting was nothing new. What about the rest? Hans Zimmer's unremarkable score works well with the scenes but it would be super boring to hear on its own. The visual effects are good but since all the coolest city-folding scenes were so short, there wasn't really that much to do. The zero gravity stuff was done well, I'll give them that. Cinematography was good, bordering on too much shaky camera.Here's the paragraph about the ending:The big ending is that you are supposed to be unsure what was a dream and what was reality. If it was real, then it's stupid because DiCaprio had dozens of ways to be with his kids without making things so incredibly complicated. The movie is supposed to make you think, but if you think about it the whole plot falls apart. If it was a dream, then it's a stupid cop out on Nolan's part. An excuse for all the things that didn't make sense. It was all a dream, so screw you, audience.
__label__6 I couldn't agree with Kimba more. There is nothing to this film other than the special effects and crappy action sequences. The obvious story line is just as simple as the story in the Matrix and was hijacked form the same philosophy books that have been around for thousands of years.What They Wanted You To See: The special effects are very well done but reminded me of when I was thirteen and learned how to bend corners in photo-shop, for the next three month any picture I created in photo-shop had all the corners bent, I was so excited to show off my newly acquired skill. Same thing with the special effects in this film. How many times do I need to see Gordon- Levitt running, fighting and falling against the walls and ceilings in the hotel room scene? How many times do I have to see the buildings crumble and the van falling in slow motion. I get it, I get it, they figured out how to do this and they are excited to show it off. Great special effects, I would have been in awe regardless of what the plot line was...Just for me the quality of a good movie is one which you enjoyed and would love to see again. Although this movie does inspire some non-independent thinking and conversation; what I am hearing about this film is that many walked out without understanding it, by their own admission, and have no intention of seeing it again. If I saw this movie being played on cable I would flip the channel so fast it would make my TV smoke. But with that said, this will be another cult movie with the same old cult following, bah bah...You Do Not See This Because You Are Not Aware That You Are Dreaming A Dream Within A Dream: Here is the great part. The movie has a secondary plot line. Forget the whole dream idea and whether he is or he is not in a dream and who's dream he is in and why the kids are in the precisely same position, age and outfits in the last scene as they are in DiCaprio's previous recollections. Apparently the character of Leonardo DiCaprio is based on Nolan; the director. The film is about making a movie. DiCaprio is the director, Joseph Gordon-Levitt is the producer, Ellen Page is the screenwriter, Tom Hardy is the actor, Dileep Rao is the technical guy, Ken Watanabe is the money man behind the movie and Cillian Murphy is the audience.Do You Hear The Music?: The whole movie is explaining to the audience and the staff that you must create a semi believable world for the victim, the mark, the audience to be drawn in to. Its about scouting a location, creating a world and getting the audience lost in it, giving the director enough time to plant a non-original idea, such as, "What a great movie this was!" Anyone feel sorry for Cillian Murphy / Robert Fisher, Jr. because he was getting screwed with? well thats not Murphy that was getting screwed with, its all of us!Is Your Inner Ear Intact After All That Imax Noise, Because Here Comes Your Kick: According to DiCaprio's character or Nolan, If you alter the dream world too much, like Ellen Page did in DiCaprio's dream, the victim's/audience's subconscious will turn on you, realizing its fake/ a dream, and will turn on the manipulator of the dream, thus the screenwriter, director, etc. and become disengaged from the film/dream and wake-up, "good afternoon, I am glad to see that you are awake."Do You Remember Any Of It?: Do you remember when the original "Architect" gets killed off in the beginning? Well apparently it is very common in the movie industry to replace/remove the first screen writer. If you watch some of the interviews with DeCaprio he says that he is studying Noal for his character in the film, now you know why.Now, wipe off the morning-glory from your eyes and go outside and play.
__label__6 I'm clearly missing something here. I watched this feckless waste of time in a crowded theater amid rabid fans and uproarious applause. I stayed composed as the stiff clumsiness of the titular monster mimicked the same directionless ambling of the script and editing. I twiddled my thumbs as audience member after audience member laid down a periodic blaze of pompous commentary. After two-hours, I slinked away, drove home, had a beer, took a shower, sat by the computer and waited for a review to pour out.That was nearly a week ago and believe me I'm still trying to wrap my head around the supposed "return" of the classic Godzilla. Perhaps the appeal of 31st film in the Japanese franchise (and the third reboot) is strictly limited to just Japanese audiences. Those on the island nation would no doubt feel a slight chill when comparing the images of destruction with memories of the 2011 Tohoku earthquake and tsunami. Yet any heart strings that are unceremoniously plucked for the sake of reviving a franchise, should be muted by the film's airlessness and off-putting attempt at natural horror.The plot of Shin Godzilla might as well be copied and pasted like a macabre, disaster film mad-lib. The monster emerges from Tokyo Bay and causes incalculable destruction, meanwhile a committee of Japanese politicians, experts and military brass try to put a stop to it. Wait, did I say committee? I meant a huge helping of committees and teams, and working groups, ministries, extra- governmental bodies, national and international task-forces; pretty much any kind of personnel organizational group who dedicates part of its man-hours justifying itself. Apart from the odd snippets of monster-on-city mayhem, Shin Godzilla is basically In the Loop (2009) without the jokes or the potty-mouth.As I am familiar with the Toho films (though not as familiar as I should be), I was somewhat prepared for some kaiju inspired silliness. To that end, Shin Godzilla does deliver adorably lo-fi set-pieces of models being toppled, crushed and otherwise destroyed. The climax of the film; a hasty, time-clocked gamble that involves cranes and trains, is enough to give casual fans a moment of glee. Then of course there's the design of Godzilla himself which properly pays homage to the original 1954 version while cleverly adding on a few adaptations.If this film were comprised of thirty more minutes of Godzilla running around Tokyo under helicopter fire, I'd like to think we'd all get our money's worth. Unfortunately the film is stuck in the tall weeds trying to justify itself with realism in all its bureaucratic glory. Much of plot revolves around research taskforce leader Rando Yaguchi (Hasegawa) and his band of personally selected misfits and flunkies. Using a long dead professor's impenetrable research into (insert faux science here), Rando navigates through a Kafka-esque maze of red tape to get his ideas to the attention of, among other people Kayoko Patterson (Ishihara) Special Envoy to the U.S. President.The fact that this movie colors it's conceptually silly plot with shades of Fukushima as well as the old bogey-men nuclear fallout from WWII, is just enough to put this film on notice. Yet if a worthy message alone were enough to warrant recommendation then The Purge: Election Year (2016) should be considered a contemporary classic. It's not, and neither is Shin Godzilla.
__label__6 I was convinced the (many) criticisms I read beforehand were exaggerated and wouldn't bother me. To my surprise, quite some criticisms seemed justified in the end ...***THE SCRIPT***ADDITIONS: On paper, the additions looked like a great way to create added value. However, while I understand why they included them, they all feel out of place.Opening scene: Ian Holm just looks too dissimilar from his appearance in FOTR (especially his haircut), which is really distracting. The frame story doesn't blend in naturally and the history of Erebor has too much to show in too little time.Radagast: He appears as suddenly as he disappears. His scene in Dol Guldur really threw me out of the movie.The White Council: I know the screenwriters want to underline the growing dark powers (hence the - preposterous - finding of the Morgul blade), but the empty talk about things of which we all know how they've played out in the LOTR films isn't convincing at all.Azog: An appallingly one-dimensional character, who feels most out of place (the fact that he looks like a creature from a cheap horror movie also doesn't help ...). His scenes have a strange "un-Tolkien" vibe, particularly the battle of Azanulbizar (the worst scene of the movie), which doesn't feel like a fierce and thrilling battle at all.FROM THE BOOK: The episodic structure prevents the film from having a fluid narrative and squeezes the tension out of every new dangerous situation: the events just leave you cold.In the book, we experience everything through Bilbo's eyes, which creates a strong connection between the reader and the main part. This is missing from the movie: Bilbo even seemed to have more or less disappeared between the troll encounter and the stone giants' battle. His homesickness, his doubts, all of this isn't really developed in the script.The emphasis on Thorin is a good thing, but also not perfect: during the enclosure by the Wargs, I didn't buy Thorin's charge towards Azog and especially Bilbo's sudden "action hero saves the day in the nick of time" intervention. The latter seemed like a very inappropriate way to illustrate Bilbo's courage.There were actually only two great scenes: Riddles in the Dark is amazing, but ironically, it also painfully shows how mediocre the rest of the movie actually is, because this is the only moment that comes close to the level of LOTR. Also, Bilbo's speech after they've escaped Goblin Town is a very welcome, for rare touching moment.***THE PACING***It's quite astonishing some people complain about the pacing, because the film was over before I knew it. In fact, I think the pacing is about just right and proved it would have been really difficult to adapt the book in just one fully-fledged movie. But since I didn't like the additions, I'm doubting whether a third film is necessary after all (but I suspend my judgment until 2014).***THE CINEMATOGRAPHY***One of the biggest (unpleasant) surprises is the cinematographic style. I'm not talking about the bright colors or the digital images, but the (lack of physical) camera use. Whereas LOTR has stunning "real" camera movements and an extremely accomplished "handicraft" feel, AUJ often feels like a video game. The camera is flying and whirling so limitlessly that it just doesn't feel like an authentic movie anymore. This is particularly apparent during the Orc chase and above all the absurd Goblin Town escape. The CGI is perfect, but too much is just too much.***THE MUSIC***After my long list of complaints, I'm truly relieved to say there is at least one thing that unconditionally gets my support, which is the score. The people who unfairly label Howard Shore's work as a "re-hash of LOTR" obviously didn't pay full attention, because when you listen to the score multiple times (and I admit it also took me several spins to really appreciate it), you discover a new rich and diverse musical tapestry once again masterfully woven by Shore. OF COURSE you hear the same themes when EXACTLY THE SAME places are visited as in "The Fellowship of the Ring" ... If someone deserves credit for "The Hobbit", it's Shore: his music is in my view the only aspect of the movie on par with the level of LOTR.***3D & 48 FPS***The 3D was good, no complaints about that. However, although I have no problems with watching movies in 3D, I start questioning its necessity.I am bewildered many people claim that 48 fps creates a "TV-look" with "actors with clear make-up on a fake set". I didn't have that feeling at all, but on the other hand - and this was the most surprising - the difference with 24 fps isn't THAT spectacular. After 30 minutes, I even had to remind myself: "Oh, I'm watching 48 fps, right?". Yes, the images look very clear and it does smooth fast movements, but the latter (which is positive) only sticks out a couple of times (and no, the motion never comes across as "sped up", so I was never distracted by the higher frame rate). All in all, I consider 48 fps to be an improvement over 24 fps (without diminishing the "cinematic" look of a film), but I didn't have the feeling I had witnessed a "revolutionary new cinema experience".***** CONCLUSION *****I didn't expect (or want) a replica of LOTR, but while "The Hobbit" isn't a bad movie, it isn't good either. I'm still perplexed I don't feel any urge to go see it again, unlike the LOTR films. We can only hope that Jackson recovers in time to save the next two films from unnecessary additions, lack of focus on Bilbo and a video game feeling. Well, at least we have new brilliant music to listen to!
__label__6 Watched the IMAX 3D HFR version.I have been eagerly awaiting the release of this movie for the last few years ever since it started production, and my early thoughts are not brilliant.Technically there has been a lot of discussion about the 48fps and I'm afraid to say it wasn't a comfortable viewing experience. Whereas in the LOTR trilogy you really got that sense of a grand cinematic epic, it just wasn't there in this version. I really wanted it to be something new and exciting, but it looked gimmicky and false a lot of the time, only the latter scenes with the Pale Orc and Bilibo's encounter with Gollum drew me into the movie. At times the image, crystal clear as its was, did feel like a HD home camcorder had been used and certain scenes did seem sped up. What is interesting is watching the trailer at home on a home cinema setup, it looked much more like LOTR in quality and feel then the IMAX version. This is the first ever movie using this technology so I will give it the benefit of the doubt, but eagerly await the Blu-Ray in a years time.The story itself suffers from the feeling of being padded out at every opportunity, I have no idea why we had to see cameo's of Frodo and Galadriel, I believe even Legolas will make an appearance in a future episode. The Hobbit is a very different story, which can be read in an afternoon, it does not need to be a 9 hour epic like it's predecessors.The dwarfs comedy seemed over hammed, feeling very corny at times, the troll scene was nowhere near as good as the books, and why omit Gandalf's voice throwing?I'm not even going anywhere near the mess that a certain Brown wizard brought to the film.As a lifelong fan of Tolkien's work, and Mr Jackson's LOTR trilogy I left very disappointed.Here's hoping the second installment is an "Empire Strikes Back" and redeems PJ's credibility
__label__6 When I first heard that Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett's new film The Curious Case of Benjamin Button was destined to join the "sweepers" at the 2009 Oscars I knew that I had to check the film out to see if the rumors were true. Go back in time a little to when the film was first announced. David Fincher (Fight Club, Zodiac) was set to direct with a script from Eric Roth (Munich, The Insider) based off of an F. Scott Fitzgerald short story of the same title. The aspects of the crew were locked and had me somewhat interested. Then the cast list was announced with Brad Pitt (The Assassination of Jesse James by the Coward Robert Ford, Twelve Monkeys) and Cate Blanchett (I'm Not There., Coffee and Cigarettes) headlining the list, to say the least, it had my attention. I rarely get hyped up for super-mainstream films anymore with all of the disappointments that have occurred in the past. Luckily enough I was given the chance to attend a press screening on December 4th for this film and left well, satisfied. Given the fact that I was underwhelmed by the trailers, being satisfied is certainly saying something.Benjamin Button centers on the life of well, Benjamin Button (Brad Pitt). As he states throughout the film, he was born under unusual circumstances. Unusual does not seem fit to describe it. Absurd would be a more suiting for the strange predicament Button found himself in. Born at the same age of everyone else when they enter the world, he had one different trait that stood out like a great white shark in a fish bowl, he had the frail wrinkled skin of an old man. Not only that, all of his features were those of a ninety-year old man. How this happened, the film does not explain in scientific terms but rather labels it as a "miracle" which in retrospect, it certainly is. With the outside of an old man, but the mind of a new born, Button had quite the handicap to overcome as a child. He is raised by the loving Queenie (Taraji P. Henson) who runs a nursing home establishment. There he meets an assortment of characters that all effect his life in different way although one person seems to have more of an effect than the rest. A young girl named Daisy (Cate Blanchett) is the grand daughter of one of the elders residing in the home. There she befriends Benjamin and their epic tale of love begins.Go into this film with an open minded because you are going to leave with an over flooded one as it is. The story carries so many twists and heart wrenching scenes that the viewer cannot help but become completely engrossed in the film. The main theme in the film is not death, forgiveness or love, but rather life. Life as whole. Every little detail, every experience we have is our life. What we witness is an almost complete documentation of Benjamin's life. One thing that the film did quite splendidly was when Benjamin stated in his narration that a certain person affected his life quite greatly. When the scenes with that person would initiate, the film's pacing would slow down and pay closer attention to his relationship with the person and the changes they caused in his life. A beautiful portrayal of the finer moments in life.Even if you leave the film bitter there is one thing you cannot deny your love for. The technical aspects of the film. The make-up is the best I have ever seen in a film. The age progression of the actors is done incredibly well. Even the actors handled the age changing roles quite well. The costume design is also fantastic and will most likely take home the Oscar gold along with the make-up. Another notable technical aspect is Fincher's direction. He has never been nominated for the "coveted" Best Director before but he has a strong chance with this film. One of the film's sequences stands out above the rest as one of the greatest Fincher has ever directed. While I will not go into great detail about it, I will say that it involves a tug boat fending off a submarine and it is incredible. Alexandre Desplat who was the composer for the film creates a score that may not be one of the most memorable, certainly helps in creating the film's atmosphere, which is a poetic one. To fully describe the spell that the technical aspects cast over the film would be nothing short of mesmerizing.While this may not be the best film of the year, it certainly is a film that will be remembered for quite some time. It's not "flawless" or a "masterpiece" but it is something grand, something magical. A film that can be experienced over and over again. One that does not undermine the intelligence of the viewer by repeating sloppy dramatic sequences that will only end up to the understandable conclusion of happiness. No, Benjamin Button is a film that understands the human mind and revels in it. Producing every bit of love, happiness, depression, confusion, hate, companionship that life provides us with this film is a tour-DE-force on most levels. Come Oscar time, this is the mainstream "masterpiece" of the year that is to be reckoned with. I can easily see it picking up nominations in most categories and winning them as well. Like I stated before, it is not the best film of the year, but is one that you should see to experience the wondrous life of Benjamin Button.
__label__6 -- this review may contain spoilers --How can a reviewer say "not the best in the series" and then give it 10 stars? 10 stars is perfection, not as good as perfection is not 10 stars... In my opinion it was far from perfect though not terrible.I have loved the Hunger Games franchise but this film let me down. For much of the film it reminded me of Frodo's (boring) journey to destroy the ring except that Frodo actually does get there in the End. Katniss sets off to kill the president and spends most of the film trying to get there but then doesn't, in fact she is beaten by the resistance, who managed to get through all of those traps that she could not and still get there quicker. She then wakes up to find the war is over. The twist at the end is so well signposted that it doesn't take much inferring leaving the happy ever after.Special effects and infinite arrow archery skills ultimately don't make up for the lack of story and obvious plot holes. I cannot fault any of the actors, they did the best they could with a bad script.
__label__6 This Disney movie is fun and the effects are first grade.Nicolas Cage is good as expected. Same goes to Alfred Molina and it's always nice to see Monica Bellucci.BUT, there is one BIG problem and that is Jay Baruchel. Why, o why, they had to put him into this movie? He ruined it completely with his annoying appearance, voice and, above all, irritating not-at-all-talented acting. They should have find different actor for this role. I don't have someone in mind but this one is very wrong. Without him it would be a much better movie.But, it's still entertaining, in spite of occasional not funny jokes which are forced into scenario. The story is bearable and neat effects pulls it out of average, slightly.
__label__6 Nic Cage is back and better then ever. Thanks to Jerry Bruckheimer and director Jon Turteltaub. Movies like this don't require perfect acting. It only require great scenes that grab your attention. This movie does it and does it well. The storyline is unique..a young kid a nobody growing up to possess magical powers. The cast has great chemistry and character development. Not to mention the special effects are gold especially the last scene of infinite ryu like fireballs (street fighter). From beginning to end i was on the edge of my seat waiting to see what happens next. If you have some free time. I would definitely check out this movie.
__label__6 Amusing film is packed with intrigue , comedy , tense and especial effects galore , dealing with a Master sorcerer named Balthazar Blake who recruits a seemingly everyday guy in his mission to defend New York City from his arch-nemesis, Maxim Horvath . It starts in 740 A.D., in Britain, the disciple of Merlin Maxim Horvath (Alfred Molina) unites forces to the wicked Morgana Le Fay (Alice Krige) and betrays his master. However, the other two disciples of Merlin Balthazar Blake (Nicolas Cage), a descendant from a historical line familiar whose mission was defeat nasty witch and Veronica (Monica Belluci) defeat the evil and Balthazar catches Horvath in a magic recipient and Veronica merges with Morgana and they are seized in another vessel. Along the centuries, Balthazar unsuccessfully seeks out the Prime Merlian, the only sorcerer capable to destroy Morgana, using a dragon ring and he finally finds him in the present days in Manhattan . Balthazar can't do it alone, so he enlists Dave Stutler (Jay Baruchel), a seemingly average guy who demonstrates hidden potential, as his reluctant pupil. The sorcerer gives his unwilling accomplice a crash course in the art and science of magic, and together, these unlikely partners work to stop the forces of darkness. It'll take all the courage Dave can muster to survive his training, save the city and get the girl as he becomes The Sorcerer's Apprentice. The young is spontaneously implicated as key on find out the weird events .However the sorcerer's apprentice is in love with Becky Barnes (Teresa Palmer) and Blake doubts whether he is actually the chosen one .They will take on lots of adventures, risks and confronting a stubborn enemy. The sorcerer and his new friend undergo a chase that take them throughout the N.Y. streets .This entertaining movie displays suspense , noisy action, intrigue, humor and extraordinary adventures. The picture blends rip-roaring feats , thrills , mystery and witchery , along with a Walt Disney style . It's a cinematic roller coaster pretty amusing that have you on the edge of your seat. The tale is silly and laughable but the effects and action are quite well. Among the most spectacular of its visuals there are a metallic eagle , the attack of a sculpture showing a giant bull brought to life and other monsters roaring menacingly towards the camera. Some illogical parts in the argument are more than compensated for the excitement provided by the excellent visual effects by John Nelson . Stimulating action set pieces illuminate the full-blown adventures of ours protagonists with breathtaking final attraction in the scenes of the ultimate confrontation among wizards . Stirring and lively musical score by Trevor Rabin . Cameraman Bojan Bazelli makes a glamorous cinematography though mostly night. The flick is lavishly produced by Jerry Bruckheimer and professionally directed by John Turteltaub (the kid , Phenomenon, While you were sleeping) .Both of them have collaborated in two hits as ¨National treasure¨ and ¨National treasure : Book of secrets¨ . The picture will appeal to Nicolas Cage fans and Jerry Brukheimer movies enthusiasts.
__label__6 Whilst not holding a candle to the far superior original in terms of script, plot and acting, this remake of the classic 1972 'The Poseidon Adventure' is at least watchable which is more than can be said for a lot of the seemingly endless tide of remakes hitting cinemas these days.The characters (for want of a better word) are a bit thin and cardboard and the plot really is just a long string of reasonably predictable set pieces but at least it entertains. The best bit is the special effects which are absolutely top drawer. For some reason Hollywood can do some really good FX and CGI when it comes to boats and the CGI rendition of the Poseidon itself in the opening scene is incredibly well done.Top marks also to the Producers for making sure the Poseidon is a proper British flagged Southampton registered ship and not some Americanised tub.Much like its predecessor though I fully expect this version to become stable Bank Holiday afternoon television filler material for the next twenty years. Just a pity a remake of 'Beyond the Poseidon Adventure' can't be done from this.
__label__6 Especially one that sinks Titanic in special effects...This is a remake of The Poseidon Adventure (1972). Before you jump on the bandwagon and start bashing it on this basis alone, keep it mind that the original film was not exactly a masterpiece. It was a film that sacrificed scientific reality to propel an inane plot, filled with one-dimensional characters and compensated for it with action-overload. Poseidon is exactly the same -- ridiculous plot, intrepid characters and big slice of adventure. What is different in this version is the masterful CGI. This is a perfect time to remake a film like this (much better than in 1972) -- just go overboard with special effects and no one will notice the flawed writing (which is basically a sketchbook mess).This is the reason Poseidon does not fail in entertaining the audience. I'll admit that I was skeptical when Fergie of the Black Eyed Peas appeared in all her plastic surgery glory and Josh Lucas spouted out some cheeseball line ("Where is the disco?" "Why, you feel like dancing now?"), but I set its cringeworthy dialogue aside early on and focused my energy on not wanting to kill Fergie. The giant tidal wave capsizing the luxury liner Poseidon would take care of that, leaving only a small group of people fighting to reach the top and get out. Another thing, besides special effects, that is by far better in this version is that the characters are actually interested in surviving and do not stop every few minutes for a petty argument as in The Poseidon Adventure (1972). Make no mistake however, these characters are still dumb to the core, getting by on lucky circumstances, occasional heroic feats and conveniently appearing objects and hatches  you've seen it all before, but damn, this is sensationally quality action.Overall, Poseidon is bathed in a militantly hectic mood and is as fast-paced as any action film you'll see. It features mind-numbing special effects, overdoses of excitement and just typical Wolfgang Peterson overkill. It definitely won't disappoint you if you're looking for cheap but solid adrenaline kicks. I'd even happily sit through this experience again.6.5/10
__label__6 Watch carefully... immediately after the luxury liner Poseidon has been hit by a huge tidal wave and capsized, an inflated life-raft can be seen inexplicably floating by the upturned vessel. Surely the makers of this slick big-budget disaster flick won't bring this conveniently into play at the end of the film, will they? Well, yes, they do. And this is the problem with Poseidon: throughout the film, the audience is expected to accept far too much without question.When the survivors of the accident, on their way to the surface, face a flooded compartment, they swim underwater aimlessly until they happen upon a pocket of air. Convenient, huh?When they are trapped in a rapidly flooding air conditioning shaft and need to undo some screws in order to escape drowning, a necklace makes a handy screwdriver. How fortunate is that?When the only escape route is totally flooded, the ship shifts and the passageway becomes clear. What a stroke of luck!Now don't get me wrong; I didn't hate Poseidon. In fact, I actually enjoyed Wolfgang Pieterson's update of the 70s classic quite a bit. I just had to completely suspend my belief for an hour and a half in order to do so. Sure, the film is cheesy, full of one-dimensional characters, has a flawed script, and lacks a soul, but it is spectacular, has more than its fair share of white-knuckle moments, and features some superb visual effects.Let's face it, this remake was never going to outdo the original (and did anyone really think it would?), which benefited from REAL star power and a decent script. But as far as dumb popcorn adventures go, Poseidon is worth a watchif only for the amazing moment when the wave strikes the ship and all hell breaks loose.
__label__6 In 'Poseidon' Josh Lucas plays Dylan Johns, a professional gambler. When a freak 'rogue wave' incident causes the Poseidon cruise ship to capsize, Dylan has gamble for his life. Deciding not to listen to the captain (Andre Braugher), Dylan tries leads a group of passengers (Kurt Russell, Richard Dreyfuss, Emmy Rossum, etc.) to safety.This is a modern remake of the 1972 'The Poseidon Adventure'. I do not remember the original, but I think this one live up to its name. It is like 'Titanic' meets 'The Towering Inferno'. There is a lot of intense action that keeps one on the edge of their seat.There is not much drama and I do not think it will add too much to the original story. I also noticed that the movie is just over an hour and a half, it is not very long. However, I think audiences will enjoy the intensity of this film.
__label__6 Tim Burton refused to direct this movie..and there is a reason..simply the script is terrible. There is no real and solid story behind this movie if not a marketing operation. The direction works well, nothing special but nothing you can complain about, also the rhythm and the storytelling works good, the problem is the script. The movie is visually stunning , probably visual effects are the only reason to watch this movie. Jhonny Deep is probably on his worst interpretation, he isn't able to transmit anything not even the madness of his character. Mia Wasikovska is the only one who truly believe in the project and tries to produce a decent interpretation. Sacha Baron Coen is funny on his character but maybe he could add more personality in his interpretation. As I already said you can watch this movie just for the amazing visual effects..but without a decent story isn't so entertaining
__label__6 Shrek The Third is another entertaining romp through the erstwhile Hollywood of Far Far Away with a few laughs for adults and a few more for kids. Like all of the films in this series, it has a big and good heart, and occasionally pays homage to or pokes fun at modern films. Unlike the previous films, however, Shrek III is not a source of non-stop hilarity, and contains a little more thematic content.Shrek finds himself inheriting his father-in-law's crown and learns that Fiona is pregnant. Predictably, both of these eventualities play pretty dissonantly on the big green guy's insecurities, and he goes a-questing to locate the next-in-line of succession - a young, dejected, high school kid. Meanwhile, charming has developed even more of an attitude problem, and is putting together a whole battalion of people with grudges.One of the themes of the first two Shrek films was 'don't judge a book by its cover'. Shrek III takes the theme a little farther and puts a different spin on it. The lesson learned here is "don't judge yourself superficially." And it works. My rating of six is based solely on the entertainment value of the film. This film is not quite as well-paced and well-directed as the previous two films, and Charming is simply not the heavy-weight heavy that his mom was. Nevertheless, it's still worth a look, and still carries positive messages entertainingly.
__label__6 The movie did not really hold the attention of my two younger kids. Even for me, the funny experience of watching both Shrek 1 and 2 was not really very evident with this installment. I remember in Shrek 2, I was laughing out loud with each passing pop culture reference and innuendo being bantered around. However, that was not so here.I was not too amused with the Disney princesses characters. Shrek's "baby nightmare scene" was well-executed. Justin Timberlake did well in voicing his "grovelling at Merlin's feet" scene. Overall, this movie was not that bad, but it needed to be much better to be worthy to stand on the same level as the first two Shrek films.
__label__6 When his new father-in-law, King Harold falls ill, Shrek is looked at as the heir to the land of Far Far Away. Not one to give up his beloved swamp, Shrek recruits his friends Donkey and Puss in Boots to install the rebellious Artie as the new king. Princess Fiona, however, rallies a band of royal girlfriends to fend off a coup d'etat by the jilted Prince Charming.I have to admit, I really wasn't as hyped to see this film than Shrek 2. The trailer was okay, the plot sounds less interesting, and many critics didn't like this film. Yeah, this film is full of energetic characters and some visually dazzling scenes, but it's not as funny, entertaining, or as great as the last two films.If you've seen the trailer, that's probably all the good jokes that they got in the film. I expected to laugh as much as I did at Shrek 2, since this film is more for the adults than the kids to enjoy. It's a sad fact that more of the jokes comes from secondary characters than the main ones. The action scenes were good, not great, but the story just doesn't interest me.And the Shrek and Fiona spark isn't as much there as it were in the previous two films. Now here's the good: I liked the secondary characters. They are all funny. This is the most visual Shrek film, having colorful scenes pop out.This film seems to rely more on the slapstick humor to cover up the weak plot, seemed to not be filled with originality. I didn't mind that. There are some pretty good jokes and some good action scenes. Don't watch this film expecting a great film like the first two, although I wanted this to be a worthy sequel.
__label__6 I'll keep this short, because people don't want to read long posts. Here goes: The good: + Visuals, stunning. + Acting was OK. I liked that it was serious in parts. Everything must not be "funny" and Disney all the time. I think it took itself less seriously than The Hobbit though.+ The action -especially when Gul'Dan was involved - was really epic and well choreographed. + If you like magic, you get plenty of mage action in here. + Obviously some fan service here and there. I heard lots of people laughing and clapping hands throughout the movie. + The set- up for the sequel was nice. The bad: Pacing. The beginning is very fast. The first 20 minutes jump back and forth between locales. I'd rather have an slower pacing in the beginning, and then go all-in later.Some of the characters have very interesting back stories (especially Khadgar and Garona), but they're skimmed over. - We never really get to see much of the orcish world. The movie feels a bit short. You could easily add 20 minutes without the audience feeling bored. So, all in all: Are the critics right and the audiences wrong? Well, I do think that some critics should question themselves. This movie CAN NEVER GET 1/5. That is blasphemy. A lot of love and care was put into this movie. My girlfriend, who knows nothing about Warcraft, thought it was a good time. Solid 3,5/5 from me. A movie worth watching in cinemas. You will most likely have a good time. It's no masterpiece, but it's an entertaining summer blockbuster.
