__label__9 Nobody directs like James Cameron. Ten years in the works, and every minute was worth it. It is the Star Wars of the 21st century. Though the plot is derivative and bears some pretty close resemblance to Dances with Wolves and a little bit of The Last Samurai, it does not ruin a mind-blowing experience. Avatar has a great future ahead of it and, possibly another Oscar for the mighty James Cameron. Jake Sully, is an ex-marine, bound to a wheel chair. He seeks to make a fresh start on the moon Pandora where his brother worked. The moon has a military run mining colony. The business has brought humans into contact with the local natives, tall blue dudes, called Na'vi. The Na'vi inhabit a part of the moon under which lies a large deposit of valuable minerals, and the humans are trying to get them to relocate. Colonel Quarich who runs the operation, ask Sully to go under cover as a Na'vi, to learn the secrets, to give the humans an advantage. If successful, Sully will get his legs back. The magic of future science and 3-D effects give Sully a handsome genetically engineered Avatar body, and he embarks on his mission. Once on the inside however, his loyalties to the humans start to turn when his heart gets lost to the Na'vi princess Neytiri. Is he willing to fight on the blue side now?The landscape of Pandora is the most creative and inventive of the decade. There are creatures that you might find in your wildest dreams or your worst nightmares. There is flora and fauna that shine with the bioluminescence of a thousand deep sea critters, and also trees which dwarf the Empire State Building.I guess the only noticeable problem with Avatar, is a lack of original story. What you see on the screen will blow you away, but all the tough critics, may come down a bit on the fact that despite being the latest in film technology, Cameron uses a very old archetypal formula, perhaps just a bit too schematic. There are a few badly scripted segments of dialogue, but nothing that makes you wanna blow raspberries at the screen.What is most important is the fact that Cameron's story gets the viewer involved and offers a handful of memorable and likable characters to root for, and some to root against. This is the post- modern era, and originality is rare, but if there is any technical progress to be made in the world of movies and entertainment, there is one name that dwarfs all JAMES CAMERON, and after ten years hiding from the Hollywood mainstream, he is back.
__label__9 Forgive me, I'm going to jump from professional to fan boy for a while here. I haven't had the jitters after a film the way I've had for Avatar in quite sometime. James Cameron's Avatar is the most entertaining and enthralling cinematic experiences of my life. It is incredible, simply put. What Cameron has done here is the most passionate film project put out since Steven Spielberg released Schindler's List. His attention to detail and his zeal for pushing the envelope is so admirable to any filmmaker or actor who will ever do another film from this point on.Avatar is the story of Jake Sully, a paraplegic marine, who replaces his brother on a secret mission to infiltrate the Na' vi, the colony of beings that sit on the planet of Pandora, where there is a precious ore, that sells at a ridiculous amount. When Jake learns the ways of the Na' vi, his feelings and learnings will put him and the people he trusts in dangerous jeopardy.The performances here, in the sense of reacting, becoming, and understanding what Cameron has written are astounding. Not to be confused with a sensational bravura performance from some of the centuries best such as Marion Brando, Tom Hanks, or Diane Keaton; these actors along with the director inhabit these visual transformations with special effects as if they are have lived these beings all their lives. This is all based on character movements and reactions. Sam Worthington, as Jake Sully, is an actor who's on his way to becoming a star. Though he has problems with his Aussie accent often enough in the film, he gets the job done. Zoe Saldana, who plays Neytiri, a Na' vi huntress, is thrilling and electrifying. Stephen Lang, as the rock hard Colonel Miles, takes on a villainous turn to a new level in science fiction. He offers actual emotion and emotes evil to the audience and gains our hatred easily. Sigourney Weaver as the beautiful Dr. Grace, is sufficient enough to have on screen again teamed with Cameron. She lives inside her role with effortless ease, but suffers from some of the typical James Cameron cheesy lines.Narratively the film works perfectly on the cinematic level. The first forty minutes or so require patience and hope as it is the weakest part of the film and offers some dreariness, but when the second act takes off, it's sky high with no limits for James Cameron. Avatar delivers the best action sequences put on film of all time. That is the boldest statement I have ever made in all my years of criticism. I sat on this for two days before charging it out, but I mean it. It is the best visual experience of my life, period.Other than those visuals, the film pops with all the other technical aspects thrown into one. Art Direction is killer as the two worlds blend in perfectly for an acceptable time. The Film Editing is the crowning achievement of the film as it also offers the perfect blend of the two worlds, enticing the viewer and shifting us around. Mauro Fiore is the threat for a Cinematography Oscar this year. It was if the viewer sat down in a chair, put on glasses, and was literally placed on Pandora, spaceships, and floating mountains. The viewer can feel so engulfed by the imagery, you feel like you can smell the leaves from the trees. Avatar is utterly hypnotizing. James Horner's score is some of the best work done in his career. It offers a variable of devastation that moves the viewer to near tears. It goes back to his work on Titanic, where the musical instruments lifted the material immensely. The entire sound team is also locked and loaded for Oscar recognition as the feeling of animals, machines, and arrows buzzing by your head leave you imprisoned in Cameron's exquisite film.James Cameron has come back home ladies and gentlemen Cameron is back, bigger, badder, and mature in his crowning work of his career. Terminator 2: Judgment Day and Titanic do not even compare anymore. This is the film that can blend the fans of those two films together and lock Cameron into your heart. He's a definite spoiler for a directing bid for the Academy Awards. You have admire the raw, natural talent the man has. How could you ever conceive such an experience and put that much effort and work into it and have it pay off? The box office success will surely keep him in the minds of voters for various critics' awards. His screenplay, leaps and bounds better than 1997's Best Picture Winner, is primed, developed and ripe for the taking. Though, you do acquire the tacky and atypical dialogue you expect from a science fiction director of this caliber, you can appreciate the effort and the honesty of it all. James Cameron is everything Michael Bay wishes he was, to put it bluntly.Avatar will bring also great actors putting their best foot forward such as Giovanni Ribisi, who is as underrated as they come. Michelle Rodriguez who exudes sexy like any woman starring in a sci-fi epic. Joel Moore, showing his range outside of his comedic work in Dodgeball: An Underdog Story. And the classy veteran actors, CCH Pounder and Wes Studi, who just simply don't work enough.Avatar is one of the best films of the year. The most exciting, thrilling, and superb work you'll feast your eyes on in any theater this century. Cinema, forever, will remember the benchmark that James Cameron placed not only for himself, but for any man, daring to change the game, the way Cameron did. Avatar is a movie experience to be remembered, and please experience in a movie theater first.***½/****
__label__9 A film with the scope of James Cameron's Avatar was always going to be a risk both artistically and financially, especially in today's economic climate. Whether it will pay off monetarily is a question only time can answer, but this viewer can at the very least attest to it being an artistic triumph.Avatar brings us as close as cinema ever has to actually visiting an alien world. The beautiful environs, the exotic creatures and incredibly lifelike natives of Pandora arrest the senses, visually, aurally and emotionally. The world in Avatar is the true star of the show. The amount of detail and work that has gone into bringing this new world alive is seriously impressive, and it will be a while before we see anything that overtakes it in scope and quality. WETA Workshop and ILM have truly outdone themselves.Relative newcomer, Aussie Sam Worthington provides a solid human heart amongst all the science-fiction/fantasy beauty and Zoe Saldana gives an impressive performance as the 8 foot tall Na'vi, Neytiri. Even though the characters they both play are blue, giant, catlike aliens, they managed to evoke a chemistry and likability that pierces through the special effects.That's not to say that everything is perfect. The story is basic and dare I say, clichéd and predictable. We have seen it plenty of times in all forms of media. The bad guys are cartoonishly evil, and sadly paper thin. The love story, while charming, is also clichéd despite being between man and alien. But in the face of these shortcomings, Avatar is a success because its storytelling lies in the brilliant visuals.Avatar is a beautiful piece of film and a true event. It does exactly what cinema was always intended to - it takes us away from our problems and worries for a few hours and gives us memorable images which will undoubtedly and deservedly enter into the cultural lexicon to stay for the foreseeable future.9.5/10
__label__9 It has been 12 years since Cameron unleashed the phenomenon that was Titanic and real fans would have to look as far back as 1991's Terminator 2 for their last proper dose of his incredibly epic action (True Lies, while fun, really doesn't count). So the anticipation for Avatar has long since reached fever pitch and beyond.Thankfully for the patient masses, Avatar has turned out to be the biggest and best event movie of the year, perhaps the decade. The story is pure Cameron simplicity – a paraplegic ex-marine is given a chance to walk again through the use of a unique alien body, called an Avatar. It is his job to gain the trust of the natives so that a greedy corporation can steal the precious metal from their lush moon. Jake's (Sam Worthington) crippled main character is the perfect point of contact for the audience – not only is he new to the visual delights of Pandora but his disability means that every moment in his Avatar body is one of glorious freedom from the confinement of his chair. When the Corporations intentions become more sinister, Jake must choose between his new found place with the natives and his own race and fight for what he believes in.Avatar combines parts of Pocahontas and Braveheart with a liberal dose of Space Marines into an epic whole that takes nearly three full hours to unfold. We could criticise that length, the weak story and the hammy dialogue. We could attack its thinly-veiled ecological message or the frankly bizarre spirituality in its second half but honestly nothing can spoil the experience while you are enveloped in it. And a large part of that is down to the brilliant use of 3D – which is both subtle and incredibly effective. Til now, we have been making movies with 3D elements, Avatar is the first truly 3D film and might well prove to be one of the most significant things to happen to blockbuster film-making since Star Wars.Cameron is also pushing the envelope with truly photo-real CG – something which has been promised for years but has finally been delivered with Avatar. The interactions of the characters with the environment is incredible and the detail on the faces of the motion-captured leads (Worthington and Star Trek's Zoe Saldana) bring them to life. You will believe totally in their performances, representing another quantum leap in tools which have rarely been used for anything other than spectacle.Make no mistake, Avatar is an important film from a technical standpoint but it is also great entertainment. The world of Pandora is a stunning spectacle from scene to scene and as Jake learns more about the Na'vi the film approaches the kind of light hearted adventure story which has been absent from movie theatres for years. Then the final act explodes into tragedy and desperate action, with the final half hour a blistering life or death struggle that has to be seen to be disbelieved.Over the coming days you will be hearing a lot about Avatar, and some of the critical reaction is bound to focus on its weaknesses in a bid to appear appropriately reserved and objective. But this is not a film to be dissected or examined, rather one to be experienced with a warm crowd, a great sound system, in 3D as you bask in the knowledge that the movie-making master is back!
__label__9 Science fiction is, at its core, more than just a hypothetical fantasy about our distant neighbours twinkling in the night. It is also a reflection on humanity. It holds the mirror up to our faces and forces us to question who we are; when our aspirations, morals, ideals and weaknesses are put to the test, are we really who we think? And what is our place in the great darkness that surrounds us, frightens and amazes us? To know your own culture; learn another man's customs. It is only by comparison that we can truly see ourselves. And it is also only us, as subjective individuals, that can know who we are beneath our human exteriors. Many of us focus too much on our weaknesses and turn to God/s and religion for love and acceptance despite our faults, with heaven as the ultimate point of approval. Acceptance by someone or something that truly sees us, not only the shortcomings, but also for what we hope to believe that we fundamentally are; good, decent, with the heart in the right place, trying to make the best of what we have been given. Some of us don't believe in God, or profoundly question his/her/its existence. Many fear death, the unknown, never to see, feel or experience anything again. To be forgotten. For ever.So the question becomes: does this introduction have a point and what does Avatar have to do with it? Mr James Cameron is a self-proclaimed sci-fi nerd and - not to mention - a human being (although I agree questionable, let us make that assumption for convenience sake) and just like many of us I am sure he shares many of the same existential thoughts and questions that find their way into our human brains and skeptic hearts. And like many of us he seems to share a craving for adventure, discovery, enlightenment and a curiosity of the world, the universe and the beings with whom we happen to share our short time here on Earth.With Avatar, Mr Cameron manages to address most of these existential questions: who are we? Not in the comfort of our living rooms, nestled in the sofa with a bag of crisps and a chocolate bar in front of the TV, but in the face of choice. The choice between convenience and what we believe in. When all the luxuries have been taken away, and all the shields and walls and layers have been peeled off, do we like what we see? Avatarians have an expression; "I see you", which comes with such a deep ring to it because it is what we all want the world and people around us to do; to recognize, appreciate and care about us and to see that no matter how we might act and react on occasions, deep down we are good. These glasses we desire others to wear when they look at us also have another umbrella term; love. Some say love is blind, but to me at least, real love is not blind, it is understanding. It looks beyond the flaws and recognizes us for all the good things that we are. It sees our actions from our point of view.The story of Pandora's box in Greek mythology depicts how numerous evils were let into our world in a moment of weakness on Pandora's behalf. In much the same way, humanity in James Cameron's Avatar goes to the planet of Pandora and is confronted with a choice; open the lid or let the box be. Naturally, the greed (for money, power, etc) wins, and so, the lid is opened. Naturally, it has consequences. However, just like in the original story of Pandora's box, something else was let into the world when the lid was pulled away, something to counterbalance the evils that had been unleashed; hope. The hope that the good will, eventually, win. In Cameron's Avatar, this hope is represented by a group of humans who are not set out to exploit the people and resources of Pandora, but to understand it. And with understanding comes the ability to see clearly, and with this comes, ultimately, love. Love is not blind, but ignorance is, and ignorance is the root of most evils taking place in the world today.We all choose how we want to see the world. Everything is neutral as far as the universe is concerned; there is no good or evil, no good or bad, no morals set in some sacred stone at the heart of the heart of the universe. Morals are what we, humans, have created because we have a conscience. We have the ability to empathise and sympathise, to see the world through other's eyes as if they were our own.On Pandora, everything is connected; the trees, the animals, the flora and fauna, the past and the present, the living and the dead. If we as humans could be as connected with each other and communicating as much, I believe understanding of each other's differences would ultimately result in the realisation that we are in fact more similar than different. I believe that one such medium of communication already exists today – the Internet. Another one is the media but the question is how well it is working.I think Cameron's intended message with this film is very simple and – I admit – very cliché, but also very true and it doesn't hurt to be reminded of every once in a while; to see what we value and to stand up for it.Plus, it's easier to see the world through another's eyes when it's presented with such smashing CGI...
__label__9 I adored POTC 1, was a bit disappointed in POTC 2 (mainly the ending) and found POTC 3 to be a mix of the previous two. The awesome music is still in place, it's a bit faster paced than 2 (even with sections of dialogue in place), and the majority of characters get their come-uppance. There's heaps of sword fights and more cannons than I've seen in my life. The special effects are seamless and mix with great cinematography and top notch costumes & makeup. Many characters are more fully fleshed out, which was nice to see.However the ending is NOT pure Disney, which surprised me somewhat. Major characters die, and all is not rosy sunsets and fluffy kittens. That was a bit of a surprise, a couple of characters seemed to just disappear and there's an obvious link left open for another movie. Whether it's made or not is another thing entirely (and unlikely from what I hear).One more point... stay until the end of the credits for an interesting extra scene.
__label__9 I have to admit that I was just along for the ride when accompanying my husband and daughter to the movie. I'd seen the other two, and, while I thought they were entertaining but wasn't a huge fan.I'd planned to be entertained by this one, but wasn't expecting to be overly fond of it. I was VERY wrong.I absolutely loved it, in fact, I convinced my family to join me again in seeing it again two days later. I will admit that you have to follow carefully to make sure that you understand who is making a deal with who to double cross someone else (yep, that's a bit confusing, but it is a bit of the part of the fun of the movie).I won't say that it is the easiest movie to follow that I've ever seen, but it was a great deal of fun overall. In my son's words, the sword fight scenes were incredible.**Major Spoiler** I've read some comments saying that they didn't like the Will/Elizabeth scene in the midst of the battle. However, I have to say that their unusual wedding was my favorite part.
__label__9 I'm a huge fan of the Piates of the Caribbean movies, but I was a little nervous about seeing this third installment because of the not as good other third installments. I still had pretty high expectations, and I was not disappointed! The plot was brilliant and very creative, with plenty of exciting twists and turns. As always, the acting was incredible. Johnny Depp always does an amazing job, but his Captain Jack Sparrow is probably one of his bests works yet! I still don't see how anyone could be so brilliant... Anyways, overall, just a really great film. Better than the other Pirate films in the trilogy (and you know how good those are!) See it, you won't be disappointed!
__label__9 From the dark ominous opening showing the unmerciful stance that Lord Cutler Beckett and company have taken against pirates to the final almost happily ever after /come full circle ending POTC 3:AWE is jam packed with action, stunning visuals, humor, romance and just about everything one could want in a summer blockbuster.True there are some plot holes and disappointments especially the fact that despite the build up we do not find out what "mark" Jack left upon Beckett. We are also left hanging with an only partially explained and somewhat hard to swallow plot concerning Davy Jones and Tia Dalma. (who is actually the sea goddess Calypso bound in human form) A glimpse of Captain Jack's stint in the locker is surreal, unusual and for some(but not me) a bit too weird. But for every disappointment/ flaw there is something wonderful. There is a breathtaking sequence where the Pearl is upside down in the ocean and then flips back , right side up as the sun rises,and the final battle scenes are also visuals wonders.Geoffery Rush as Captain Barbossa and Johnny Depp as the incomparable Captain Jack Sparrow are both nothing short of phenomenal turning in hilarious/gripping performances.I have seen the movie twice and will be seeing it a couple more times because I really enjoyed it. I take it for what it is a fun thrilling somewhat cheesy Disney pirate adventure.I say Drink up ye hearties Yo- ho!! to this one!
__label__9 If Skyfall was the deconstruction of James Bond, Spectre is the reconstruction. Daniel Craig has returned once more as 007, with Spectre marking his fourth (and potentially final) outing as the character. In Spectre, Bond follows a cryptic message from his past, which leads him to the evil criminal organization known as SPECTRE. After three films, this is the first of the Daniel Craig Bond films that feels more like the Sean Connery/Roger Moore-era Bond adventures, and that is a good thing.Longtime Bond fans should know all about SPECTRE, who were the very same criminal organization that terrorized Bond for almost all of the Sean Connery films (save for Goldfinger). Due to some issues involving legal rights, the filmmakers have not been able to use SPECTRE since the early-to-mid Seventies. Ultimately, the rights were returned just a couple of years ago and now we have SPECTRE's triumphant return in a film that hits all of the beats one expects of a classic Bond adventure: exotic locales, an imposing henchman, some sultry Bond girls with troubled pasts, cool gadgets, and a maniacal villain in the form of Christoph Waltz's Franz Oberhauser. On top of all that, Spectre is chock full of great Bond moments. From an opening action sequence that features one of the finest Bond fight scenes ever, to a Swiss Alps duel between Bond in a plane and the bad guys in SUVs, Spectre finally turns Daniel Craig's Bond into the superhero the character once was, and the 12-year- old inside of me loves it. Of course, the single greatest element of Spectre is not necessarily it's throwback feel or the fact that it's the first Daniel Craig Bond that fully embraces the Bond mythos, but it's how this film effectively ties together all of Craig's Bond movies.Featuring nods to the events of Casino Royale, Quantum of Solace, and Skyfall, Spectre kind of feels like the end to the whole enchilada. In some ways, that's good. It has been rumored that this might be Daniel Craig's last Bond film, and if it is, then it is an amazing end to his tenure. No other actor who has ever played Bond has had a run of films as strong as Craig's, and a large part of that is that all of these films have been direct sequels to the others. None of the other Bond films ever really acknowledged any character growth or story progressions from one film to the next, but the Daniel Craig movies all have. The Bond in Casino Royale was brash and impulsive. The Bond in Quantum of Solace was moody and violent in response to Vesper Lynd's death. As for Skyfall, Bond was tired and worn down, a relic searching for a purpose. And Spectre finds Bond struggling with the repercussions of his past while finding his heart and soul once again. By the time the credits roll on Spectre, you really feel as if a myth has been born and Bond is back in tip top shape, better than ever.I give Spectre a 9 out of 10!
__label__9 A cryptic message from Bond's past sends him on a trail to uncover a sinister organisation. While M battles political forces to keep the secret service alive, Bond peels back the layers of deceit to reveal the terrible truth behind SPECTRE. "The Dead are Alive" are the very first words printed on screen in Spectre, the 24th and far-from-last James Bond adventure. The success of Skyfall three years ago - yielding not just $1 billion worldwide but breathless reviews, two Oscars and even a BAFTA for Best British film - places this new opus in a tricky returning position. I am a huge James Bond fan, I've loved James Bond my entire life, so I was excited to see what Sam Mendes had done with this one. I've always saw them like superhero movies, starring an indestructible character who simply wore a tuxedo instead of tights and a cape. This film goes to epic lengths to deliver all you could conceivably want from this invincible franchise. From the gun to the other gadgets in Q's workshop, everything is back where it belongs. The "t" in Fleming's Spectre stood for terrorism - the SPecial Executive for Counter-intelligence, Terrorism, Revenge andExertion - and perhaps one of the first uses of the word in pop culture. Indeed, this is a thoroughly British movie franchise. Made of pure action mixed with a real sense of style.Bond's adventure this time is a genuine personal journey, learning more about himself and others as well. Still, the death of Dame Judi Dench's M at the climax of Skyfall raised the personal stakes for the usual impermeable Bond in a fashion that can't be automatically repeated an instalment later. When Casino Royale have taken those elements away in order to do a more compelling story, here a more traditional Bond character is bring up. Daniel Craig is probably my favourite James Bond ever - equal to Connery. He has grown into the role of the British spy with flair and a welcome lightness of touch, a mix of inconscience and playful self-awareness, just right for a character still trying to find his place in the modern age. Plus, in Spectre Craig offers his most relaxed and witty performance to date as 007. If this is his farewell to the tux, he's going out in a pretty stylish way. Another person who has grown into his part is Ben Whishaw, as the perennially stressed quartermaster and tech supreme: Q. Given much more to do this time around he has developed him as a very enjoyable comic character.Léa Seydoux and Daniel Craig have an excellent chemistry and you feel like something tangible is there in regards to a possible romance but the film doesn't explore that relationship as well as they could have. Indeed, Sorbonne-learnt psychologist Madeleine Swann skills with a gun doesn't offset the annoying damsel-in-distress role she's been assigned in the action; which at one point is so depressingly retrograde, it's a wonder Mendes didn't just tie her up to some railway tracks. David Bautista shows up every once in a while, does something incredibly bad ass and that's it: very minimal but functional character. Nonetheless his brutish physical threat leads to one of the greatest fight scene ever seen in a Bond movie. Later, we also get a horrible hi-tech torture scene, a new version of the sadism that was on display when Mads Mikkelsen was roughing 007 up in Casino Royale. Most importantly the shadowy introduction to Oberhauser was masterfully done, suspenseful and marvellously well shot, it gave us a promise for an intense character. Christoph Waltz has an almost papal presence while bringing his familiar streak of fruity menace to the role. He introduces us to the new big bad , Franz Oberhauser - aka Ernst Stavro Blofeld; please don't act surprised, neither of us were born yesterday! This new (old, really) villain makes Bardem's Silva look like a junior at best. Every scene he's in is amazing. You know those James Bond movies are not usually short so giving three scenes to Christoph Waltz. Three scenes! This was disappointing. You just want to see the villain and then comes this great scene and nothing for a long again. These movies need a good villain, a great villain, we got one but we need him to - like Silva in Skyfall - get things done. However Christoph Waltz just talk about how he hurt James Bond in the past and how good he HAS BEEN. Check out my blog to read the end!
__label__9 The Dark Knight Rises was a perfect sequel to a masterpiece. Christopher Nolan took a different direction and focused more on Bruce Wayne/Batman. This movie is filled with lots of emotions. It has such great characters and of course the dialogs is so good. The performances are incredible. It was my most anticipated movie of the century. The more I watch it, The more epic it gets. Personally, I think The Dark Knight Trilogy is the greatest Trilogy of all time and this movie gives the greatest ending of all time in the movie history. I remember seeing it thrice and the more I watched It the more respect it earns. Thank you Christopher Nolan, You Sir Are A Master.
__label__9 The Dark Knight Rises (2012) Film Review Cast: Christian Bale, Tom Hardy, Anne Hathaway, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Gary Oldman, Marion Cotillard, Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman, and Liam Neeson. Director: Christopher Nolan Synopsis: Christian Bale stars as the classic superhero Batman and his billionaire alter-ego, Bruce Wayne. In the last installment of Christopher Nolan's Batman films, Bruce Wayne no longer feels that the City of Gotham needs a hero and goes into hiding. However, when a new villain, Bane, played by Tom Hardy, threatens Gotham City, Wayne decides to pick up his mask again and come to the rescue of the city. Review: Christopher Nolan introduces the final, thrilling chapter in his Batman series, and it certainly is another big adrenaline-filled, comic- inspired movie, which feels right on the big screen. As all sorts of familiar faces keep us grounded and the audience is introduced to a few new characters as well. When crisis threatens Gotham City, Bruce Wayne jumps back into the Batmobile to fight crime. Batman is joined on his quest by a young and eager cop (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), an elusive cat burglar (Anne Hathaway), and the ultimate violent masked villain (Tom Hardy). This film served as great entertainment with its colorful cast and unexpected plot twists. Nolan also used some actors that had either appeared in previous Batman films or in his other major hit, Inception. All of them were shown in their respective roles: a massive Tom Hardy was almost unrecognizable in his Bane costume, while Joseph Gordon- Levitt and Marion Cotillard were both great as Robin and Talia—and obviously comfortable with the directing style and the overall dramatic tone, similar to that of Inception. The only actor that seemed out of place was Anne Hathaway as Selina Kyle. Typically, Anne Hathaway has been cast as a sort of girl next door, so it came as a shock to watch her steal and fight her way through the City of Gotham. After a few scenes, however, it becomes evident that the casting decision was a good one, as Hathaway portrayed a darker Catwoman role very well. This is a long film, in traditional Nolan's style, clocking in at over 160 minutes. There were a few times when the movie felt drawn out, but the dramatic action scenes and impressive dialogue really held the audience's attention and kept them on the edge of their seats. However, the timeline tended to be a bit confusing at times. Sometimes, throughout the movie, it was hard to tell how long it had been since the last time a given character had been on screen. Left with no knowledge of passing time (days, months, years even) was really the only shortcoming in this film. Despite the minor flaws in this film, The Dark Knight Rises is exciting, creative, and dark—and certainly well worth a few hours of your time.
__label__9 John Carter did not get the attention that it needed! This movie should of been more successful and despite what most of the critics and viewers are saying about this movie, "that its a lot like Star Wars and Avatar", that is not true. I have found John Carter to be an amazing movie visually, and the story was actually great. Don't get me wrong, Star Wars and Avatar were great movies, but I believe that John Carter was far much different and slightly better. I saw John Carter in the theaters the week that it came out and I had a lot of fun watching this movie!. So the hell with the critics, in my opinion, John Carter kicked ass!!!!.
__label__9 This is not going to be a long review, there are some great reviews on here and I think they have said all I wanted and more. The thing to hold onto is that despite all the negative hype in the worldwide press, this is one heck of a great movie. I have no idea why any film studio would want to distance themselves from this film, it is fresh in a time when fresh is a very rare thing in the movies. Avatar managed it in heaps and so does John Carter. The story is grand and intriguing, the characters are solid and believable, and the CGI is so good you forget about it. This will become one of my favourite all time movies, it is up there amongst the very best of the genre. Don't believe the hype.. this is a must see movie!!
__label__9 Hearing about this Disney film's story sparked my interest in seeing this right away! I finally did and overall, the characters, the setting, and the plot flowed seamlessly well together! It's like Disney's formula of "Star Wars" and "Avatar" meets "Prince of Persia: Sands of Time." So, the plot revolves around a Civil War veteran who is somehow transported to Barsoom (aka Mars), where he must help a princess and a colony succeed in a heated battle against another feuding colony.Director Andrew Stanton delivered well in this epic take of John Carter. Sure, star Taylor Kitsch seems like he's trying a little too hard as the lead guy, but it looks like he's heading toward the same path left behind by Jake Gyllenhaal for "Prince of Persia": serious character figure, yet sometimes able to show unintentional humor usually without noticing. Though not bad on either one's part! Since John Carter was conceived as a story back in 1912 by Edgar Rice Burroughs (of Tarzan fame), I have to say that this movie is certainly NOT a rip-off. A film like this deserves more credit than initially given! Epic action/adventure films like "Star Wars" and "Avatar" wouldn't exist today without these early roots! It pretty much sparked an influence on the sci-fi, action, adventure genre films that most audiences came to know decades later.It looks like Stanton's following exactly what his fellow Pixar colleague Brad Bird had done with Tom Cruise in "Mission Impossible: Ghost Protocol," stepping up as director for once in live-action! Not bad for their first time.
__label__9 John Carter of Mars was an epic. A detailed story, written in a time when pulp fiction was a cultural phenomenon like today's epic superhero movies. This is not a wham bam in your face Avengers movie, but a grand epic with a tribute to one of the greatest American writers of his time: Edgar Rice Burroughs.Thank you Disney for your bold efforts. Sales might be the standard of today, but in the hearts of John Carter fans this was a great movie. Put to the screen with taste, class, and detail that will let this story live on. May your efforts be rewarded with continued sales as this movie finds its way toward cult status.
__label__9 We just saw a pre-release showing of this movie and I had to pick my jaw up off the floor a few times. The movie is simply stunning. While there may be small details to niggle at for the most die-hard Burroughs fans, this is "inspired by" a Princess of Mars, it isn't a straight adaptation. The movie is a whirlwind of amazing visuals, powerful dialog and soul-wrenching storytelling.I'd had high hopes that this movie would live up to the hype surrounding it. It surpasses it, the hype doesn't even come close. From beginning to end, this movie focuses on story, and expands on a great story with stunning effects as opposed to just using great FX in place of solid storytelling.It also has one of the strongest pieces of non-verbal storytelling outside of Up.Do not miss this film. Do see it in the theaters. Do see it in 3D.You will not be disappointed. I'm certainly chomping at the bit for release day so I can see it again and I'm already hoping for a sequel based on The Gods of Mars.
__label__9 Edgar Rice Burroughs' "A Princess of Mars" just about created the last 50 years of Hollywood blockbusters. Star Wars is SO ripped off of that book... and, of course, practically everything else is ripped off of Star Wars. So it's great that someone finally tackled the one and only original.And it's quite a good adaptation. I enjoyed seeing Burroughs' creations brought to life, and I enjoyed "John Carter" as a movie in its own right. It's not a great film... but it's just the sort of escapist adventure that Burroughs himself specialized in.The same sort, but not the same one. The movie takes liberties with the original material... and rightly so. ERB's original story would be creaky by today's standards, so there's no use being too faithful. But some of the departures are needless and poorly chosen.1. The first compromise is the title. "A Princess of Mars" is a great title. It tells you pretty much exactly what to expect: romance, adventure and a strange new world. "John Carter" is a lame title. It could refer to just about anything, from a hard-boiled detective story to a teen romance. It may seem like a small thing, but the title really did color audiences' reactions to the film. Yes, the original title would have seemed strange in today's culture, but that would have worked in its favor. The change of title was a weak decision, made by a committee.2. Another compromise is the way the film starts. The whole introductory segment with the airborne battle on Mars is not only pointless, it drastically weakens the story. "John Carter" is a tale of one man, who suddenly finds himself in an unimaginably strange environment. We should have discovered that environment as Carter does, and not had a sneak-peek ahead of time. This weakens our sense of identification with Burroughs' interplanetary Odysseus, and shifts the emphasis to the story, which was never ERB's strong suit. This was another decision made by a gutless committee. Someone in a meeting said: the intro is too slow, we'll lose the audience. They were dead wrong. To make great movies you have to take chances, build at the pace dictated by the material, and trust your audience to come along.3. The final, and most significant, compromise lay in attempting to modernize the story. I recently re-read the first several Mars books, for the first time in decades. They're surprisingly intimate, low-key affairs. There's a background of great events, but the real story takes place on a very human scale. There are conversations, confrontations. Meetings in darkened rooms. The action is there, but it's far from 'non-stop.'What's more, one of the real charms of ERB's Barsoom is that it represents the future as seen through the naive eyes of 1912. It really makes sense only when seen in that historical context. And it then acquires an extra nostalgic dimension, giving us an insight into the mind and imagination of that far-gone era. Modernizing the story homogenizes it, and makes it seem like a me-too creation. Going for more of a retro, steampunk look would have emphasized that this is THE granddaddy of all interplanetary adventures. (A more explanatory marketing campaign would have helped too. Epic FAIL, Disney.)Going for more of an old-fashioned feel would also have allowed the film to preserve some of ERB's marvelous literary quality. His plots may have been pure melodrama, but his language was amazingly poetic. Re-reading the Mars books, I found myself frequently pausing to marvel at a particular sentence, or a single phrase: words so perfectly chosen that they simply could not be improved upon. Some of that should have made it's way into the dialog of "John Carter." There's a marvelous exchange between Errol Flynn and an English judge at the beginning of the movie "Captain Blood." It sets up the sense of romance for the rest of the film. I'd have liked the air battle of "John Carter" to have been replaced with something like that.Fortunately, the film does capture many other elements of ERB's vision. The green Tharks, for one. They simply could not be better... they're absolutely true to the weird descriptions in the books, yet manage to rise above their CG limitations and live as characters.I also adored the choice of Lynn Collins to play Dejah Thoris. (Though, of course, she should have been wearing full red-skin makeup.) She's not exactly a powerhouse in the acting department, but she's got the perfect look; she's exactly the Princess of Mars that I wanted to see. I'd have loved to see her grow into the part through a long course of sequels...All in all, despite its limitations, "John Carter" is a fine adventure film, that does manage to convey at least some of the magic of Edgar Rice Burroughs' writing. It does require a stronger-than-usual suspension of disbelief, but I'd recommend it highly to fans of classic swashbucklers.
__label__9 This was without exaggeration the most impressive movie I've ever seen. It's the stuff cinema and 3-D are made for. I experienced it as a partly breathtaking parade of impressive landscapes, panorama shots, aliens, costumes and sets connected by a complex story about power, resistance and of course love that culminates in a clever ending.The only reason I give not all 10 stars is because I have to confess that I found the story sometimes a little too complex and therefore hard to follow.But this feast for the eye is by any means the money for the ticket worth. I've never seen such a spectacular movie. My dream fulfilled: A new overwhelming sf- spectacular which isn't part of the Star Wars or Star Trek franchise but opens a new rich and fantastic world and which has- in opposite to the SW prequels- a logical and intricate story.All my hopes that it won't bomb but allow new adventures with John Carter on the Mars to be filmed.
__label__9 This film is deeply flawed in certain ways. It's much more convoluted than its predecessors, and nowhere near as cohesive. It seems like Sam has tried to fit too much into the film. Three villains as well as Peter's own inner demons, tension with MJ, problems at the Bugle...how much can one superhero handle? Sure, everyone has their own part to play...but introducing all those new characters, and having their individual arcs play out to a satisfying extent - it's a big job, and one that doesn't quite pay off - or, at least, pays off at the expense of smooth narrative flow. We end up with some terribly clunky lines of expository dialogue  such as Eddie Brock's line to Chief Stacy, which goes something like 'I'm the new photographer at the Bugle...oh, and I'm dating your daughter' - that will make you spit goo in annoyance (or, whatever it is you do when you're annoyed - I spit goo) The many mental/emotional shifts Harry (poor, poor Harry) goes through are handled in a pretty ham-fisted way, too. I can see what Sam is trying to do...but it just seems a bit...well, the word 'clunky' keeps coming to mind. There are also a couple of very 'sequelly' bits, which seem a little inconsistent with the other films. I'm not talking about the whole 'Flint-Marko-killed-Uncle-Ben' thing  that was actually handled surprisingly well. The most memorable example of what I mean is Bernard's little word in Harry's ear concerning Norman's cause of death. Umm...so, why couldn't he have mentioned it EARLIER?! Like, y'know, at the start of Spidey 2 for instance! It would have saved Harry a LOT of grief - not to mention Pete and MJ.Narrative flaws and rough edges aside, however, this succeeds in being far-and-away the most entertaining film of the three, based purely on action and laughs. It is the darkest, the most action-packed, and by far the FUNNIEST Spider-Man yet. This, I suppose, is the upshot of Sam Raimi himself writing the screenplay (with brother and Army of Darkness co-scribe Ivan). The sequence in which Peter turns into the lamest bad-boy in history is a total crack-up. The looks on the faces of the 'laydeez' as he struts along the street like a nerdy, emo-midget Travolta are absolutely priceless.The chase/fight sequence between Peter and Gobby Jr. is brilliant. We fly and fall through the air, not knowing which way is up half the time. Only Sam Raimi could disorient an audience to that extent while still allowing us to keep up with what's going on - AND manage to inject the scene with such style, humour and gravity, all at the same time.Both Sandman and Venom are great to watch. Yes, the special effects are awesome, but it mainly comes down to the fact that both characters are so well cast (no surprise really, given the casting in the previous films). Thomas Haden Church (a very BUFF Thomas Haden Church, I might add) brings real humanity to Flint Marko. We actually empathise with him. Topher Grace is great, too. He has fantastic comic timing, and gives us a very slick, smarmy, but perversely likable Eddie/Venom. He gets some of the best lines (as well as some of the worst).The established cast are all as good as ever, and have now grown nicely into their roles. They all seem comfortable, with the possible exception of James Franco - just because his character has been messed with a bit. But he does a good job considering.And then there's Gwen.Bryce Dallas Howard.(*Sighs*)Nothing much to say, really.I suppose I could say that Gwen would never make it as a model, because she's far too healthy-looking and altogether too attractive.But that might be a little cynical of me.Bryce has a big future in movies. She's a very capable actor, and is obviously extremely photogenic. She just needs to stop doing bad M. Night Shyamalan films. And keep doing good Sam Raimi ones.Speaking of capable, extremely photogenic actors who keep doing Sam Raimi movies, it's good to see Bruce Campbell in a slightly more memorable part this time. I'd never imagined him playing a cheesy French Maitre'D, but he gives a hilarious turn in a classic scene.Yes, this film has problems, but if you just sit back and soak it up, they don't really matter that much. The movie looks great, will make you laugh, and will thrill you as well as move you. Possibly.I can't really speak for everyone. I mean, you might be one of those unfortunate people without a soul.But I love it, in spite of its flaws, and I still think Sam Raimi is one of the best high-profile directors in Hollywood - because he's all about having fun. And that's what it all comes down to with Spider-Man 3.Fun.
__label__9 I will start off by simply saying that this movie is excellent. No, the word excellent doesn't even describe this movie well enough, because it is better than excellent. I could not take my eyes away movie for the hour and a half of the film. Even if the movie was seven hours long my eyes would still be glued to the screen for the whole time. Along with Up, this has to be the best animated movie ever made.The animation was outstanding, and I was amazed at all of the little details in all of the characters, objects, and backgrounds in every frame of every scene. The film is full of breathtaking and amazing images. The scene with all of the floating lanterns was one of the most beautiful things I have seen in a movie. Nothing could have been done to improve the amazing visuals and animation used.Before first seeing the movie, I hadn't realized that it was a musical, so that was a pleasant surprise for me. I have heard people say that the movie was great while the music was only average or not that good. I, on the other hand, thought that the music was wonderful and fit perfectly with what was happening, whether it be the action and fighting scenes or the calmer scenes like the lantern scene.Also, this movie actually made me laugh, and I don't laugh much during most animated movies. Personally, I thought that the dialogue was great and all of the characters worked well together. I especially loved the relationship with Rapunzel and Flynn, because it could be comical at one point and then touching at the next. And not only was the dialogue be used for comedy, but it also was used to create beautiful and touching scenes. Even thinking about the line were Flynn told Rapunzel she was his new dream and when she told him that he was hers gives me chills.I really hope that this movie gets an Oscar. True, Toy Story 3 and How to Train Your Dragon were both outstanding movies, but I think Tangled is the most deserving in the animated film category. Every aspect of the film was perfect. The animation, the story, and the score all were excellent and when combined they made a movie that couldn't have been better.Congratulations Disney, you've got me tangled. I wish I could see it again, but unfortunately I think I'll just have to wait until it comes out onto DVD. I hope to see more movies like this in the future.Oh, and by the way, I'm a guy. A teenage guy. So really this movie should appeal to all audiences. If you love a good movie that is charming, funny, beautiful, and touching, then go see the movie Tangled. You won't be disappointed.
__label__9 I was apprehensive, to say the least, when I went to see Tangled, after the disappointment that was Princess and the Frog. First, Disney's back with CGI animation, which hasn't really worked that great except, maybe to some extent, Bolt. Second, the trailers made it look really slapstick -- I'm rather wary of today's animation features that try too hard to be hip and fast-paced and silly.I was pleasantly surprised. Sure, there were slapstick and broad humor sure to make little kiddos laugh. But I was surprised by the sophistication as well. The screwball comedy between the hero and heroine is very well done; adults can appreciate that. The sidekicks, in particular the Max and Pascal, are hilarious. The hero and heroine are very likable and not flat. And there's a sense of sadness/wistfulness throughout the whole show that the adults will understand.But what really is great is the animation. This is Pixar-worthy great. In fact, after a while I forgot it was CGI (which tends to be a bit stiff and crude when it comes to character animation). The human characters have that hand-drawn quality even though they're CG. In fact, they're more expressive than the hand-drawn characters in Princess and the Frog. The backgrounds are gorgeous (I can count every blade of grass). And there's an iconic scene where the kingdom rouses from darkness to light with thousands of floating lanterns -- it really is magical. It reminds me of classics such as Beauty and the Beast and Sleeping Beauty.Best of all, the movie is not just all laughs and slapstick. It has heart too. Even the minor characters such as the King and Queen -- you can feel the emotions. And the romance is believable and not cheesy.Like I said, I was very pleasantly surprised. It's something that is worthy of Pixar, and I'm glad to see Disney back on their game. While Princess and the Frog was a missed opportunity, Tangled is almost perfect.
__label__9 Not just in a cornball sense. Could have coined the term for this movie. Leaves you warm and fuzzy but also pleasantly surprised that an old favourite can still be so well adapted for a new audience.The silliness feels distinctly contrived. A clumsy nod to Disney tradition.The music often feels equally stilted.In stark contrast to some surprisingly polished and intricate action sequences.The romance provides heartwarming and heartwrenching moments.The cast is superb. They bring the story to life and keep it moving at a fair clip towards a wonderfully satisfying conclusion.Wish them well. Hope to see more like this. Already watched it many times and will watch it many more.Thank you.
__label__9 I have noticed a trend of negative reviews directed at the humor in the movie. Listen...humor is subjective. It's also a big part of these types of movies. When I read someone criticize the movie because the heroes are dropping one-liners during intense fighting scenes and to them, this downplays the seriousness of the situation or shows a lack of concern for safety from our heroes, I shake my head so hard I get dizzy.This is a comic book movie! It's a fantasy/fiction/whatever you want to call it! I'm not a comic book expert, but have been a big fan of the Marvel Universe on film since Iron Man 1. I found the writing in AoU to be sharp and witty. And yes, I laughed more than I thought I would. "There's not enough character development!" I've seen this in the negative reviews, too. Look, we've had 3 Iron Mans, 2 Captain Americas, 2 Thors, and a Hulk movie to develop the characters. At this point, there isn't much more we really need, is there? Yes, we see more about Hawkeye's personal side here, but to me, that only feels fair since he's not big enough to carry his own film. And given that he's very much just a human with a great set of physical skills and is less protected and faces his mortality far more than the others do, I felt like it made perfect sense here. We see and learn more about Black Widow in this one, as well. So the complaints about character development don't hold any weight to me. It sounds like the angst of a group of people expecting to see the Empire Strikes Back version of the Avengers. In Age of Ultron, we get immediate, sustained action. I don't know about you, but if I'm going to watch a movie with a cast of characters that have the abilities of the Avengers, I want to see them in action! The creativity of the collaborative fighting was improved as well and was featured much more so than in the first one. That was something that I think the first film lacked, the side by side teamwork. This movie held my attention from start to finish. As my summary says above, Mjollnir is a pleasantly surprising star of the movie. When you watch it, you'll see why and in my opinion, if you don't enjoy its role here, you really just have a bad attitude!
__label__9 Given how teeming with multiple awkwardly-diverse characters the AVENGERS franchise is, you can imagine how difficult and mentally-exhausting it is to gather all these uniquely vivid plot lines, with all their interspersing expositories and asides, and still be able to form one coherent and fluidly-constructed narrative. The first Avengers movie proved itself able to carry the weight of such challenge, and came out successful in delivering one the most poignant superheroic tales ever told. This year, AGE of ULTRON blasts into cinemas carrying the load of mammoth anticipation. While it is expected to perform better—if not as well as the previous release—it will not be totally surprising, and will still be forgivable, if it falls just a feet beneath the staggering anticipation. Well, you can thank Joss Whedon for helming this projec. This movie soars past expectations.In AGE OF ULTRON, as the characters further expand, new names join the team, proving how much more difficult it must be for the screenwriters to still cling to their material's soundness, and make that further engaging and compelling. Nevertheless, Whedon and his prolific team of scriptwriters, come out triumphant over these apparent hurdles, managing again to weave all the heroes' divergent story lines and confine them together into one solid plot. Whedon effectively mines the capacities of these individuals and turns them into the very foundation of his epic superhero saga.Robert Downey's Iron Man/Tony Stark remains as a formidable figurehead in spite of his ever cynical and highly confident posture, while Chris Evans provides a dependable alternative with Captain America's leadership. There's an implicit undertone playing beneath the trajectory of these two leaders' relationship, and that might serve as an indirect catalyst to what is set to unfold in Captain America: Civil War. Chris Hemsworth's guileless 'Thor' is ever militant, yet innocent. This movie also draws more of the previous installment's less-utilized characters, into the scopes of its spotlight. Jeremy Renner's Hawkeye, enjoys his expanded character whose interaction with other avengers, has immensely improved, and he also has some of the best jaw-dropping action sequences here. Mark Ruffalo as Hulk still smashes, he's as diffident as he is dangerous, and yet still charmingly funny. Scarlett Johanson's character, Black Widow, has been treated with bigger attention, and her presence is never less if not as strong as her male counterparts. To forget the newcomers, Taylor Johnson's Quicksilver and Elizabeth Olsen's Scarlet Witch, is totally unfair too, as these two cemented their fiery presence right at the very first battle sequence of the movie. Same can be said with Paul Bettany's Vision, whose mysterious power might be the very weapon that could propel the Avengers to winning their battle against their biggest enemy: ULTRON. James Spader's voice strikes as the perfect embodiment of the indomitable android ULTRON who is hellbent to rendering the planet to extinction. Spader has the utmost command of the character and has fueled it with utter rage and bitterness, and calm and ease when needed. You're not going to forget Sam Jackson's Nick Fury too, and the rest of his team, including Falcon. He's as effectively leading his team here when he is needed to be as he was, the first time Avengers were called to assemble. It features Andy Serkis' entry to the franchise too, and while it's brief, he manages to established a commanding presence in the movie. The film grants everybody the right amount of exposure to shine, letting both their inner fragilities and physical prowess speak volumes for who they are. Their imperfections claim pivotal share in their greatest undertaking—winning their very own internal battles so they could emerge able to save the world from the wrecking weights of annihilation.Straightaway at the beginning, Age of Ultron throws our heroes into roaring action, drawing us immediately into a surfeit of explosive and visually-omnipotent action extravaganzas that allow every smashing, pounding, flash of beams, flight, and basically everything, assume near-impossible forms of eye-squashing spectacles. It is when all these heroes engage together in combat against their enemies, that the movie subjugates all those hungry eyes, and grasps total domination over the audience's attention, letting the awestruck reception hum along the visual drama as it extends its reach beyond imagination. It is also when all the death-defying sequences and breathtakingly choreographed action set-pieces, spin out to full throttle, that the underlying cause why this band of superheroes fight with their lives, becomes blindingly evident—humanity. This is what had put them into this circle, in the first place, and it's what they are now aiming to preserve even when they have to wrestle with death. Whedon has never deprived these characters of humanity, making each of them similar, albeit their much readily-perceived differences. This summons affection for these characters, which right away the film gathers, whenever it puts the narrative's soul into the spotlight.AVENGERS: Age of Ultron is without fault, but too few and little that they're not even worth-noting. To be able to gather all these radical personas and bring their different worlds into one concrete universe, is already a colossal feat. Whedon proves to be capable of pushing the limits of the movie's accomplishments past that milestone, and the result is never less than monumental. The whole experience imparts an overwhelming sense of satisfaction, yet it also makes the audience hunger for more. Well, the movie lays ground-works and unleashes potential backdoors for the franchise's next chapters, and that makes everything that follows something to look forward to.AVENGERS: AGE of ULTRON is visually enthralling as it is emotionally profound, a cinematic achievement soaring above the previously reached heights in the ever expanding universe of superhero movies. 9/10
__label__9 Can this film possibly "not" succeed? No. Even if it were a bomb (which it is most definitely not) tens of millions of fans would see it anyway. So it was a guaranteed hit. Nice work if you can get it.Best line? "I support your avenging." (Mrs. Hawkeye)Second Best line? "You get hurt. Hurt em back. You get killed. Walk it off." (CA)Third Best? "Well I was born yesterday." (you know who)Honorable mention? "Beep beep" (Natasha on her cycle, mimicking her horn, trying to warn pedestrians)Why did Spader get the Ultron gig? Because of his incredible work in Blacklist. (See it)What's the best part of this (somewhat long) movie? The back-and-forth between the characters, a Whedon trademark. And of course the action scenes. Possibly the best ever filmed.What's the worst part? The 40 minute "dead zone" after the Bond-style opening, where the Avengers try to make like it's Happy Hour at the local bar.Which actor consistently shines? Downey. He is the smartass each of secretly wants to hang out with.Which actor suffers the most in group play? Thor. The gravitas of being a God gets lost in team work.Name a massively over-exposed actor who finally got under-exposed? Sam Jackson.What could we have lived without? "Explaining" to the audience why characters like Pepper Potts were "unavailable" for the story (or possibly too expensive even for a quick cameo)What is Whedon's greatest enhancement to the Marvel backstory? The romance between Natasha and Hulk.What is Whedon's strangest tweak? Killing Pietro. The boys at the X-Men franchise will not be happy.Is this a better movie than AV1? No, but it is just as good. (It tries harder but has pacing issues).Who wins at the end? The studio. And Joss Whedon who BOTH wrote and directed what could be the biggest money-maker in history. Somewhere in Hollywood, JJ Abrams is actually getting nervous.-------------------------------------------------------------------UPDATED Jan 16 -- OK, so JJ deconstructed the original Star Wars script scene by scene (something no one else had ever bothered to do) and rebuilt it into the 2015 relaunch of Star Wars. And nailed it. The viewer experience, the pacing, is dead-on. And oh by the way produced the fastest film in history to hit 1.0 billion in ticket sales. So disregard the last line of the original review above. JJ is no longer nervous.
__label__9 I was lucky enough to see a preview of Half-Blood Prince three days before opening day. I saw it a second time with my son who is not quite ten, but who is generally mature for his age and doesn't scare easily. The two viewings give me the unique advantage of both the adult and the child perspective on the movie. I only recently started counting myself a true Harry Potter fan after my son introduced me to the movies a couple of years ago. I finished the last book only three weeks before seeing the movie adaptation of Half-Blood Prince the first time.With all the book details very fresh in my mind, I had high expectations of the movie. And Yates, the production crew and the cast definitely delivered. The movie impresses on many levels from an artistic point of view. The stripped landscapes and washed out colors convey a constant feeling of dread and foreboding. The standard train trip to Hogwarts was particularly stark, seen against a landscape scorched by a hot summer sun and dotted with dark pools of water. The usual lush greenery and joyous train ride are nowhere to be seen.Personally, I felt the pace was spot-on and that the movie elegantly made time for all key plot points. But only if you enjoy a plot line driven by character and emotion. For the younger lot, looking for frightening wizard duels and attacks by magical creatures, the first hour and a half of the movie drags on a bit. My son certainly became fidgety, and didn't appreciate the finesse and sophistication of the plot and cinematic approach.Most of the threatening and darkening tone of the movie was also lost upon him, whereas I reveled in the finer details contributing to a general sense of ever-encroaching darkness. There are worse things in life to be afraid of than big hairy spiders. My son missed seeing those - I was a lot more intrigued by the ominous undercurrents made palpable by the indomitable trio of David Yates (director), Steve Kloves (screenplay) and Delbonnel (photography).Some people feel that the romantic comedy aspects played too large a role in the movie, but I felt this aspect added some much-needed lightness and human drama to the movie. Harry (Daniel Radcliffe), Hermione (Emma Watson) and Ron (Rupert Grint) all find themselves dealing with the vagaries of young love - from dealing with unwanted advances to finding love in unexpected places. The romance was aimed perfectly at the young teen market, and I found myself cringing ruefully at some of Lavender Brown's love-obsessed stunts and smiling wistfully at the tenderness between Harry and Ginny. Haven't we all been there at some stage of our lives?All in all, Harry Potter is growing up. And so is the market for these movies. If you've seen all the movies up to now or read all the books, and your are at an age to appreciate the adult themes and movie techniques, this movie should fall pitch-perfect on your ear. You are likely to leave the cinema filled with a heart-wrenching sadness for innocence lost. Purist fans will most certainly complain bitterly about numerous sub-plots, events and characters that were cut from the movie and the odd scene that doesn't exist in the book. But Yates' truly gutsy adaptation really works and brings a depth and clarity to the main themes of the book that is quite extraordinary. He manages to capture the lingering lightness of that time before the serious business of adulthood sets in, alongside the relentless buildup to the final showdown between The Dark Lord and The Chosen One. And the lack of closure at the end of the movie is no accident, I believe. Just like the book, this movie leaves you aching to see how it all ends (never mind the fact that you already know).I must also commend the acting. The young leads have all matured in pace with the maturing content of the books and their acting shows it. Rupert Grint shines brightly in the somewhat Shakespearean love comedy he finds himself in, and makes the most of his new-found sport hero popularity. Emma Watson hits the spot, portraying Hermione's emotional vulnerability with gentle confidence and softness.As for Radcliffe, it's easy to miss the evolution he's undergone as Harry, since there are other actors ostensibly given more to do in this outing, like Tom Felton and Bonnie Wright, both of whom get the opportunity to take their characters to a new level. Tom Felton, especially, does a remarkable job. But Radcliffe's task of playing the steadfast and courageous, yet not flashy or arrogant hero, remains a difficult one. Especially on second viewing, it becomes clear how his understated and controlled performance speaks very much to the type of man Harry Potter is shaping up to be. A man who is left with a tremendous responsibility at the end of this movie and takes it up without flinching. The boy-wizard is no more.Of the older guard, Alan Rickman's Snape was a consummate performance, ... obviously. And Michael Gambon's portrayal of Dumbledore never felt more right than in this movie. Jim Broadbent's Slughorn is deliciously played with just the right mix of off-putting sycophancy and endearing pathos.All in all - a triumph all around!
__label__9 It's a real shame that I could never give a film featuring Harry Potter the status of a perfect film. Each tale relies so heavily on those that came before or after that one can never be a truly all-encompassing work. Sure, the three-act structure can be utilized, but without the background info, nor the knowledge that more will be coming, watching a middle installment alone will leave you confused and disorientated. The reason I bring this up is the fact that Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince is good enough to warrant the praise and to put the idea in my head about whether to call it a masterpiece. The tone is perfect, the laughs are many, the darkness is charcoal black—how could this be the same director as the abysmal—in comparison to the rest of the series—Order of the Phoenix, David Yates? Two words  Bruno Delbonnel.Who is Delbonnel you may ask? Well, he is the brilliant cinematographer behind the camera. I may have blamed the failures of the fifth film on its screenplay as Steve Kloves was glaringly absent, (he being the writer of each other film, including this new one), but a film is a team effort. Therefore I guess maybe I shouldn't put all the accolades on one man now; I just feel absolutely compelled to do so because so many moments linger in my mind due to the beauty of their composition and use of their environments to stay interesting and exciting at all times. Visually, you cannot be bored. It just goes to show that it is never the director alone, but also the team he or she brings along. I like Yates and was surprised at how much I disliked his first foray in the Potter universe, granted, I felt the book itself was sub-par at best. Thankfully, he did not disappoint with his second of three, (make that four as book seven goes to a two-part finale), because, as it was with the novels, Half-Blood Prince is by far the best of the series—until Deathly Hallows of course. And adding the pedigree of a guy like Delbonnel, with films such as Across the Universe, A Very Long Engagement, and Amelie in his back pocket—all stunning works of art—only makes his job easier.I can't get over the use of close-ups throughout, or the multiple instances of framing used to hide something on screen. Oftentimes, the camera pans or cuts to reveal something in the fringes, to highlight the focal point when it's not centrally located, or literally move our eyes to exactly where the filmmakers want them to be. The blocking is superb with some scenes blurring the edges and keeping only our main object of interest in focus, timing and positioning executed with aplomb. And did I mention the close-ups? (Yes, I know I did.) One sequence, with Harry and Ginny running through a field of tall grass after intruding Death Eaters, is shot with a high speed pan to keep the characters crisp as the foliage darts and blurs in their wake. I'd be remiss not to mention the special effects as well, especially when dealing with the black smoke trails from Voldemort's flying goons as well as the wispy pensieve. Whether completely computer generated or practical dye clouds in water, the effect is pitch perfect, even dissolving each memory in sections, leaving important pieces, like young Tom Riddle, to be lingered on just a second longer than the rest.As for the leads, Daniel Radcliffe and Emma Watson are solid as usual, (Radcliffe showing some solid comedic chops after taking luck elixir), and Rupert Grint's Ron Weasley gets some room to break free. But it is the supporting roles that deserve notice. Helena Bonham Carter will scare children, so kudos to her, and Michael Gambon's Dumbledore will win even more hearts as his leader finally allows Potter into the inner circle of the plan to rid the world of Voldemort, it now being a circle of two. It is newcomer Jim Broadbent, however, as Professor Slughorn who steals the show. Broadbent is known for his many comical expressions and his rubber face is utilized to great effect here. A blowhard and man with many "friends", his jubilant smile and need to collect powerful and famous wizards for his Slug Club are ever-present, bringing some levity as well as effectively hiding the dark secret that lies beneath.Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince succeeds in the details. It is an exercise in minimalism and showing only what is necessary to the plot. Condensing the novel better than ever done before, Kloves has given Yates the tools to make a film and not just a visual representation of the words. What had previously been done best by Azkaban's Alfonso Cuaron, this one works better at retaining more subplots and not stripping it quite so bare. Subtle hints are planted so no longwinded exposition is needed to make us, as an audience, feel stupid and lectured to. Instead Yates and crew allow us to show our intelligence and ability to use our eyes and memories to piece things together, making the experience more enjoyable as we believe we are solving the mysteries and not the director who is skillfully guiding us through. I'd say it couldn't get better than this, but my confidence in Yates has been renewed and my hopes that Deathly Hallows is treated with respect is at one hundred percent, so who knows what the future has to offer?
__label__9 *I will be talking about the Ultimate Edition of the film* This was one of the most anticipated CBM of all time. Ever since the arrival and subsequent success of Marvel's The Avengers people have wondered when will DC launch its own cinematic universe, one of the main reasons being the opportunity to finally see titans such as Batman and Superman share the screen together: the ultimate nerd dream. On 2016, the moment finally came for BvS to be released AND.. it performed poorly. Not only did critical reception left a lot to be desired, but fan reactions where surprisingly split after its cinematic debut. People either loved it and called Zack a genius, or hated it and called him a hack. Me, personally, I found myself with middle of the road feelings, for sure, but more leaning towards the negative side with subsequent viewings. The theatrical cut of the film showcased amazing performances, incredible visuals, and action set pieces that seemed like comic book panels come to life, in a good way. However, when it comes to its narrative structure and more technical aspects like editing, the film was seriously flawed. More plot holes than Age of Ultron, questionable character decisions, random editing that lacked cohesion and focus, and forced dramatic moments that lacked any impact because the attempts at character development ranged from limited to nonexistent, especially when it comes to Superman's character. I thought it was a 5/10 movie at best. As such, I was kind of skeptical about the idea of a 30 minute longer version. I say kind of because I know how Zack works. I remember Watchmen being vastly improved with its director's cut, so in a way I was expecting BvS to perform in a similar manner, but I also feared those 30 minutes wold be just there to amplify action and discredit storytelling issues. Oh boy, I'm so glad I was proved wrong. The ultimate cut of the film was infuriating, but not because it was awful, but because it questions the sanity of WB executives and editors and makes you wonder what were they thinking during the editing process. What I got out of the Ultimate Edition was a thought-provoking deconstruction of two very iconic superheroes that gave spotlight to the struggles both of them face when they aren't fighting crime. What I got was an extremely well produced character study on both Batman and Superman in a cynical world, a world dangerously close to our own. We meet Batman as a ruthless, worn out hero that has seen the failure behind his ideals and witnessed some truly horrifying things in his life. Superman, on the other hand, is portrayed as a godlike figure that seeks to do good in the world, but finds himself emotionally conflicted once he realized that every good deed he does leaves behind a trail of destruction (most of it due to Luthor's antics). In my opinion, this is a hugely original approach, one that distances itself from the rest of the competition and delivers a dark, somber, yet relevant superhero movie that understands both characters and gives them real human struggles to deal with. I felt invested in both of them, and hoped that by the end of the film both could find a way to redeem themselves. Their character arcs were very well established during the first two acts of the movie, and by the time we get to the titular climactic battle the emotion behind the jaw-dropping action is intensified. Lex Luthor as a villain was also given more time to develop with this new edition. One of the main criticisms with the original version was the fact that his plan relied too much on conveniences, and the character's mannerisms and mad-scientist attitude was annoying, and that goes without saying his motivations were unclear. Not only do we spend more time understanding his hate for any godlike figure and thus his hatred for Superman, but the added scenes allowed us to witness his entire plan come to fruition. It sells the cold, manipulative, calculating attributes of his comic counterpart. The acting is spot on. Every actor owns his/her role, from Cavill's Superman, to Ben Affleck as Batman, Eisenberg as Luthor, and Gadot as Wonder Woman, whose scenes are brief, but are more than enough to sell the strong and ferocious warrior that she is. Cinematography is stunning, and miles above that of Man of Steel's. And the soundtrack by Zimmer and Junkie XL? Perfect, just perfect. When it comes to flaws, the film still has some of those. The Martha moment, while serving as a pivotal character moment for Batman, felt off in execution, and its understandable that many people got mad at it. If your main complaint about BvS the first time around was its bleak tone and subject matter, this film is still not for you. I understand most were expecting to see the heroes being the most iconic versions of themselves, clashing in an elongated battle and evoking the same feelings The Avengers gave audiences back in 2012. In that sense, the film will remain divisive, but at least I have the comfort of saying that, at the very least, the film is competently made.
__label__9 That's right. We have been waiting for these two heroes to finally meet and fight against each other. This movie is so good in both plot and special effects. Henry Cavill and Ben Affleck have performed well in their acting stages. They are the best superhero actors and they have filmed their fighting scenes very well. The movie starts to show the conflict between the lives of the heroes and now they have blamed each other for it. This movie is amazing and sets up a good plot for Dawn Justice.
__label__9 Batman vs Superman Dawn of Justice. I love this movie I know people have issues with it and there are some things I don't like and it's not the best in DCEU franchise but it's a great take on the characters and I have a lot of fun with movie.Ben Affleck is great as Batman I love brutal style they went for he's also very dark which I love.
Henry Cavill as Superman is great as Superman and this is a great sequel to Man of Steel and serves well as a sequel.The story is a little rushed however it is handled alot better in the Ultimate Edition of the film adding alot to the story and making it a better movie.The visuals are fantastic and Zack Snyder did a brilliant with both characters in my opinion and adding Wonder Woman and hints at the Justice League was handled brilliantly in my opinion.The story is brilliant and handled very well I'm not a fan of Lex in this movie or this universe he just isn't a good Lex to me at all and I hope he gets better but at the moment not a fan.I love the Martha scene for me that was Batman realises that Superman is just like everyone else with a family and people he loves and you can Batman finally has respect and a chance to make that another Martha dosent die its a chance for him to fix his mistake very powerful scene I love it.I will defend this movie always yeah it has issues but its still a fantasic movie and a great way to carry on these characters in my opinion.9.1/10 great sequel to Man of Steel with great versions of Batman and Superman and the fight is just incredible its my two favourites on the big screen I love it.
__label__9 I'll start by making it clear I have only ever seen the Ultimate Edition. I'm aware of what was cut out for the theatrical release, so I will concede up front that most of the criticisms about pacing, editing, and missing bits of plot at release were merited.With that caveat out of the way, I must reiterate that this was bar-none the boldest superhero movie I have ever seen. To me, it was arguably the best as well, though "best" shouldn't be taken to mean "most enjoyable." That honor easily goes to "Thor: Ragnarok." What makes BvS stand out among other films in the genre is that it takes two characters who have been done to death since the 1970s and brings them up to date. I recently tried to watch "Superman: The Movie" for the first time in a number of years, and while it was still good and Reeves will always be iconic, I just couldn't take it seriously. I'll put it this way: If the story in BvS was "stupid" in your view but Superman turning back time by spinning the earth backward on its axis didn't seem like one of the dumbest things you have ever seen -in any movie from any genre- to the extent that it outright ruins the movie for you, then your opinion about BvS isn't worth much. Nostalgic bias was always going to be a problem for this movie, and the way people reacted to and reviewed "Man of Steel" was telling in this regard.That brings me to Zack Snyder's take on Superman. You know, that guy whose status as the first extraterrestrial ever encountered by humanity was a total non-issue in the old movies. Apparently, Snyder has a similar view to my own in that his take on the Man of Steel makes his being an alien a core piece of his identity. He may look like any other (absurdly attractive) person, but he knows what he is, and that makes him perpetually uncertain of where he fits in this world. He is essentially good and really does care about people, but he struggles to truly empathize with the likes of us. To be human is to be frail, and that is not something he can easily relate to. This is the root of his conflict with Batman.Just as Clark struggles to genuinely relate to most people, Snyder's Batman either refuses to or otherwise just can't relate to Superman. He doesn't see him as anything but a threat regardless of Superman's clear good intentions. Remember, a small group of Kryptonians were able to bring humanity to the brink of extinction in less than a day, and Bruce Wayne is nothing if not a realist. He didn't know the guy from Kansas. He only knew the god from another world.While Batman's anger toward and fear of Superman are readily apparent from the start, Superman's inability to imagine things from Bruce Wayne's perspective only becomes truly apparent during their first real interaction. This reminded me of the animated version of the "world's finest" storyline, where Superman judges Batman harshly for using fear tactics and threats of violence (also, actual violence) to get the job done. Superman wasn't willing to consider what it would take for a human man to fight criminals and save innocents, or what that life would do to him over time. Just as Batman didn't see the guy from Kansas, Superman didn't see the man who lives his life trapped in one brutal, unthinkably traumatic moment (this was beautifully conveyed during the film's opening moments), and had spent his whole adult life bearing witness to humanity at its absolute worst.The conflict between these two characters is as old as human history. They want the same things, but they can't understand one another. So they fight. And what a fight it was.Watching a fight between, say, Captain America and Iron Man was, to me, more frustrating than anything because each understood the other's perspective perfectly. The fight between Batman and Superman in BvS was genuinely gut-wrenching, as intended, because they would have understood one another if either had tried. The whole sequence hilighted Batman's tactical prowess and ability to control a situation. Maybe the most badass thing about the fight was that it ended exactly where Batman planned. That brings me to the big elephant in the room named "Martha."I can't recall exactly which YouTuber put it this way, but if you thought the "save Martha" exchange was about their mothers having the same name, you had your brain turned off. The brain-on people have explained this to death, but it bears repeating. This was the moment when Superman became humanized to Batman. He was about to die, and his only concern was for his adoptive human mother. He still believed that the man about to take his life would do the right thing. Even with the cowl on, there was no mistaking the look on Batman's face. It was the look of shame, guilt, and sudden uncertainty that says "What am I doing?" Turns out even the most brutal, angry version of Bruce Wayne is better than Tony Stark at knowing right from wrong. At knowing that he had gone too far.From there, the third act was a series of truly impressive (albeit mostly CGI) fight sequences, beginning with what I regard as the undisputed champion of Batman fights. Nothing in the Nolan movies (and especially nothing in the Burton movies) even came close. Go ahead, try to convince yourself that Batman and Bane taking turns punching one another in the face until Bane's mask broke was a good fight sequence. No, this was a fight straight out of "Arkham Knight," and it was glorious. The battle against Doomsday really was one for the books. From the moment Wonder Woman arrived accompanied by the intense sounds of Tina Guo's electric cello to Superman's tragic, heroic death at the hands of Doomsday, I was glued to the screen. Sure, the mere presence of Doomsday spoiled the end to a degree, but watching the Man of Steel laboring to carry that kryptonite spear towards certain death was no less impactful. A brief word on Jesse Eisenberg's take on Lex Luthor. At least one other reviewer on this site already said it best when they pointed out that this was his origin story. If you consider his scheme objectively, he is actually one of the more formidable incarnations of the character. If we're lucky, we'll eventually get to see a Snyder Cut of "Justice League" and find out where this story was actually meant to go. For the record, Joss Whedon and Danny Elfman both should have said "no" to taking a dump on someone else's art.
__label__9 I went to the theater to see this movie with high expectation. Leaving the theater slightly disappointed. The movie overall was okay and enjoyable. They were CGI for most scene and it was beautiful. Ben Affleck and Henry Cavill did a wonderful job. Jesse Eisenberg was quite new and fresh for Lex Luthor's role. While Amy Adam 's Louis Lane role feel quite out of place. But the story was easily forgettable and quite confusing . I found myself got lost at some points. Turn out the one that they show at the theater was cut down 30 min by WB. So I find and watch the ultimate edition because I want to give this film another shot. Turn out the director's cut way better and enjoyable and more fit it, the whole story make sense. Zack Snyder really got the vision. Maybe you love it, maybe you hate it, maybe you want to give it a chance with the ultimate edition, maybe you not, But before you decide to love or hate it. You should see it first and have your own opinion.
__label__9 Ok, so i dont understand all the hate for this installment of the Superman franchise. The acting is great, the visual effects are beautiful, there is tons of action, and i like the story, it was the basic superman formula, but why not....it works. Kevin spacey played a great villain, Brandon Routh summoned Chris Reeves on this one and deserves more credit than he ever received. I grew up in the era of the Chris Reeves Superman and i find this to be the next best thing. Personally if you seen this movie when it 1st came out and thought you didnt like it, give it another chance, it is a great film.
__label__9 This was my first movie to see Superman on the big screen, before I saw "Man of Steel" when it came out seven years later. I never saw any of the old films in theaters, but only saw them on TV. After when this movie came out, critics enjoyed it, audience have mixed feelings, and sadly didn't go well at the box-office which it all leads up to another reboot instead of a making a sequel. So, does this movie hold up or does it really deserves to be forgotten? Here it goes: the movie acts as a sequel to the first two movies, while it ignores Lester's concept for "Superman II" and ignoring the third and fourth movie. However, the movie takes place in modern time, instead of taking place in the late 70s or early 80s. Furthermore, it tells about Superman making his return from searching the remaining of his home world Krypton as he has been gone for five years, while Lex Luthor is wanting to destroy Superman and creating "land" of his own. Also, Lois Lane has moved on from Superman as she wrote the article which it completely shocks Superman for her receiving a Pulitzer Prize on her work called "Why the World Doesn't Need Superman." So, how is that movie? As much as I love "Man of Steel," and I am glad that its getting a sequel; but at the same time, I wish if this movie got a sequel. There are possible reasons on why this movie failed because of either the movie wasn't marketed really well; it is due to other movies that came out the same date as this or probably is that everyone in this world weren't ready for having Superman to be brought back, because of "Batman Begins" came out a year before this came out in 2006. I guess people weren't ready to see another "Superman" movie, because they were very much in the mood for having Batman to come back. Also, a 6.1 on IMDb is really low, which I think is unfairly treated, and I think the movie just needs a little love. I know "Man of Steel" got a 7.2, which its good; so, why can't this one have a good rating like "Man of Steel" or the other two good "Superman" movies? Just saying. I don't think this movie deserve the hate it gets. I remember that Bryan Singer just drop off to direct the third "X-Men" movie, so he can direct this one instead. I know he wants to direct the third "X-Men" movie, but Fox just ended up not being patience so they can make the movie without him as Brett Ratner directs it instead. Difficult choice, if I may say so. Anyway, I will admit that the premise of the movie feels similar to Richard Donner's movie like Lex Luthor wants billions of people to die. You think they should at least try something new and different. Also, which its a minor nitpick, I don't mind Kate Bosworth as Lois Lane but they could at least find someone better to play Lois Lane. She is like the equivalent of Katie Holmes from "Batman Begins" because she looks slightly young to play the role. Nevertheless, I thought she did a fine job, but could of been someone better to play Lois Lane. Also, compare to "Man of Steel," the movie may have some fine action scenes but I wish if it had more action scenes so the filmmakers don't have to stick by the books on making a traditional "Superman" movie like the others. So those are my only issues with the movie. What is good? I thought Bryan Singer's direction was actually really, and has a very unique to style on how he wants this movie to be. Aside from Bosworth, the rest of the cast all did good. I thought Kevin Spacey makes an excellent Lex Luthor, but also updating from the role that Gene Hackman played originally. For Brandon Routh, I thought the look of him for not only looking like the part for playing both Clark Kent and Superman, but that he looks very much like Christopher Reeve. He really does give an outstanding performance, and was able to channel the role very wisely. The special effects are really good, which that takes care of the lame FX from "Superman IV: The Quest for Peace." I do appreciate some of the nods to the original movies by Donner like having Marlon Brando as Jor-El, its wondrous moments, and of course, hearing the theme song by John Williams. John Ottman's score is very well done for paying respect to Williams' score and making new material on his own. I wasn't bored by the movie as it goes at a good pace, and I did get teary eye from the part that Superman gets beat up Luthor's men as it makes me think of Jesus getting whipped by the Romans. Of course, other comic book movies may have some religious aspects like what this movie did. I do like where Superman tells Lois, when he says that she wrote the article that doesn't need a savior, but he hears everyday when people are crying for one which that many Christians will feel about that. With that said, I think "Superman Returns" deserves another look, and I do think its close enough to be as underrated as "Man of Steel." I enjoy it, and I'm giving it a 9 out of 10.
__label__9 I just came out of the movie 30 minutes ago (as it was released a day before America over here).The movie is visually stunning - the CGI is top rate and you won't spend the whole film groaning about how fake things appear on the screen.Acting was brilliant. Johnny Depp once again proves why he's the only man alive who can play the role of Cap. Jack Sparrow. There's a great number of returning characters from the first film - including a couple I was very happy to see again.My only fault was perhaps that this film lack a certain 'heart' that the first film had, which I believe came because the first film was something very different, which of course this film couldn't contend with.That aside, you will hardly notice it. There's a good plot, wonderful sets, great acting and plenty of laughs. One of the best films I've seen all year thus far - can't wait for the 3rd one!
__label__9 Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest does the right thing as a sequel: It maintains the same carefree spirit of the original and creates an even more fitting story to the whole Pirates lore. After narrowly escaping the gallows--with the help of his friends Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) and Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley)--and reclaiming his cursed Black Pearl, it still seems Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) has a few more fish to fry. More specifically the barnacle-encrusted undead on board the ghostly Flying Dutchman, lead by Mr. Octopus Face himself, Davy Jones (Bill Nighy). Jack apparently owes a blood debt to the inky captain and if he can't find a way out of it--namely locating the secret contents of Jones' famed locker--Sparrow will be doomed to eternal damnation and servitude in the afterlife (insert Jack Sparrow's face of disgust here). Making matters worse, Sparrow's problems manage to interfere with the wedding plans of Will and Elizabeth, who are forced to join Jack on yet another one of his misadventures.Depp's Oscar-nominated performance as Captain Jack is still a marvel in slovenly pirate behavior, with his slurred speech, swaying swagger and slack, waving arms. But whether channeling famed Rolling Stones' guitarist Keith Richards or not, it's the duality of the character that continues to intrigue us. He is a lusty, fearless man with a deeply defiant and somewhat sneaky streak but whose delicate features, long, dread locked hair, Kohl-rimmed eyes and almost girly mannerisms give him a subtly effeminate air that belies his macho antics. This time around, young Brits Knightley and Bloom have a little more to do, with Elizabeth's growing attraction to Jack and Will's reunion with his father, Bill "Bootstrap" Turner (Stellan Skarsgård), who's soul is stuck on the Flying Dutchman. And Nighy (Love Actually) once again makes his mark as an effective villain, infusing his rather quirky acting ticks--the laconic delivery, the laid-back attitude--which shines through all the special effects make-up. Let's just say, Nighy certainly rivals Depp in the arrogant rock star stance, even if he has tentacles for a face.The other thing Dead Man's Chest does right is make things bigger and better. From a hair-raising sword fight on top of a spinning water wheel to the way Davy Jones and his crew look--all water logged and crustacean-like--the film's production value is simply amazing. Returning producer Jerry Bruckheimer and director Gore Verbinski make sure the action sequences, the sets, the costumes, the make-up and the special effects give the audience a familiarity to the original while also taking them on a whole new adventure. And if you are a fan of the Disney park attraction (the one at Disneyland, not Disney World), the elements that got missed in the first one--the creepy bayou, the beating heart in the treasure chest--are in this sequel. Dead Man's Chest does lag a bit from time to time, especially in heating up the Jack, Elizabeth and Will love triangle. But that's OK. We enjoy watching their banter, as much as we do the rest of it. And for those who'll want more adventure after the movie ends, Dead Man's Chest gives us a promise the third installment will be just as much pirate fun.9/10
__label__9 After seeing all three of the "Pirates Of The Caribbean" films, I still think this second one was easily the best of the three. Most friends disagree with me on this, but.....hey, we all look at films differently.This was the best "Pirates" to me because it had some fascinating new characters; it did not have the sappy or annoying characters and romance of the first film; it had just the right mix of action and lulls and it had some super special-effects and humor. Much of that good stuff, unfortunately, was overdone in the third film.which also dragged on too long. This movie isn't short, but none of the action scenes go on too long and so the entire two-and-a-half hours is entertaining.Also (and this goes for all three of the movie) it looks absolutely super on Blu-Ray. It's the reason POTC is often shown in electronic stores promoting high-definition televisions because this film is about as good-looking as it gets. It's incredibly sharp.The newest main character is the multi-tentacled "Davy Jones," and he's a real hoot. Who knows how many hours each day poor Bill Nighy had to sit in the makeup room before "Davy" was ready for action. (Actually, the same good be said for Johnny Depp's "Capt. Jack Farrow, who wears almost has much makeup as the late Tammy Fae Bakker.) Anyway, between the battles of both land and sea, something interesting always is going on or being said in this movie, making it a fun ride all the way.
__label__9 I will firstly say that after seeing the trailer and previews for this film I had serious doubts. I was afraid that the producers would just try to cash in on the original's success, and forget about any content.I was pleasantly proved wrong.This is the most fun I've had in the cinema in the longest time. I can't remember the last time I was so entertained.Although it is a bit slow at times, and a bit predictable (although fun in it's predictability), it hardly lets up and continuously entertains.If you loved the original, you will DEFINITELY love this film. The ending not only makes you laugh, it makes you think "What the hell?" and will make you eagerly anticipate (major understatement) the third installment.There are some great lines, the same fun characters, an inventive and fun story, and some brilliantly staged action sequences.In summation: SEE IT! See it on the big screen. If you miss it, you will surely regret it.
__label__9 A great continuation from the first movie! You definitely need to see the first movie before this one, otherwise you'll miss some crucial elements about the various characters and plot. Don't miss the bonus scene at the end of the very long list of credits. Casting was brilliant and not a flaw anywhere. Left me excited about the third movie. Johnny Depp is fantastic! Depp deserves to be nominated for this role! The special affects and action scenes were exciting and showed tremendous thought and skill into the making of this movie. The movie was suspenseful, dark, funny and contained beautiful cinematography. The costumes and makeup were amazing.
__label__9 I loved the first movie, so I had to see the second one. The beginning was a bit slow, but there sure was a lot of action. The sword fighting scenes were exciting and in some cases rather funny as well. The special f/x were outstanding. All of the characters were believable, even the computerized ones. The voodoo lady was hard to understand. I caught every other words she said. I'm sure I'll get all of the humor when I buys this DVD and play her section with the CC on! I didn't quite understand the reason behind the part of the movie with the tribal people other than it gave the movie more action scenes. That whole section could be removed and the movie would still flow well. I loved Commodore Norrington in the first movie. I was disappointed with what they did to him in the second movie. I hope he returns in all his glory for the 3rd Pirates movie.I saw a few young children in the theater and was horrified to think that those young eyes saw some very scary and gruesome images. Please, don't take your children until you've seen this yourself first.The movie is a perfect cliffhanger. There are enough questions left for you to want to go back to see Pirates 3.
__label__9 When watching pirates 2 for the first time, you start to wonder what was going through director Gore Verbinski's mind. Pirates 2 shows a very different side to piracy than that of 'the curse of the black pearl'.Disloyalty, greed and lying are the basic themes of piracy, but this has shown more in the second film than the first. Mr Verbinski has definitely shown a new side to piracy, making it not as 'sugar coated' as the first movie.But overall, at the end you are still hanging of the end of your set as expected. Well done to all those involved. Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead man's chest was tops!!!!
__label__9 Today was to be the wedding day of Elizabeth Swann and Will Turner. But before the ceremony, the bride and groom are both arrested, by order of Lord Cutler Beckett. Elizabeth was clapped into jail, while Will was brought before Beckett. It seems they were incarcerated for aiding and abetting known pirate, Captain Jack Sparrow. And since Will and Jack were so close, Beckett decided to strike a deal. He tells Will to seek out Jack Sparrow and acquire his compass, in exchange for freedom. Meanwhile, Captain Sparrow is reunited with Joshamee Gibbs and the rest of his crew aboard the Black Pearl. They were now in search of the greatest treasure in the history of the sea: a chest belonging to Davy Jones himself. But first, they must find one very crucial instrument to aide them in their quest: the key to unlock the chest. Later that night, Jack meets a suspicious stowaway. It was none other than the mutated form of "Bootstrap" Bill Turner, Will's lost father. Bill warns Jack of Davy Jones, as well as something far more deadly and dangerous...the biggest, nastiest, monster in the ocean: the Cracken.After a long search, Will spies the Black Pearl aground on a tropical island. He goes ashore to investigate and finds Jack Sparrow had been taken in by a tribe of primitive warriors, who claim Jack is their god. Playing along, Jack has his men incarcerate Will into a hanging cage with the rest of his crew. It would appear Jack had it made, although he was unaware of the fate which was in store for him: the tribe was to release the god within by destroying his mortal exterior...Jack realized this by the time they tied him to a spit above what would soon be a roaring bonfire; Will, Gibbs and the rest of the men pool together to save themselves. It was a gracious effort, and a few men lost their lives, but finally they are free, and Jack also manages to free himself of his own dilemma, and after they reunite, climb aboard the Black Pearl and set sail, leaving behind a very angry and cheated tribe; Captain Jack wanted to continue his search for the key to Davy Jones' chest, so he seeks out his old, so-called friend: Tia Dalma. They find her in a secluded swamp. She tells them where to find the key: aboard Davy Jones' ship, The Flying Dutchman. So, they set out to find the Flying Dutchman, sticking to secluded waters, so as to avoid...The Cracken.When they finally discover the Flying Dutchman, Will goes aboard alone to check it out first, when suddenly he's kidnapped by a motley crew of half-man, half-sea creatures, including ol' squid-head himself, Captain Davy Jones! It also seems Jack Sparrow has a debt with Jones that is yet to be settled: he owes him his soul. Jones tells Jack to bring him 99 additional souls so, while Will remains captive on the Dutchman, Jack, Gibbs and the Pearl crew venture to Tortuga, a seedy pirate hang out, to do some soul searching. Back on the Dutchman, Will is reunited with his father and, learns the secret of Davy Jones' chest: after a heart breaking relationship, Jones had actually cut out his heart and locked it into a chest. He who posses his heart can either kill Jones or control him. Will wanted to kill him, but Jack wanted the heart to control him; unbeknownst to the gang, Elizabeth had escaped from jail and had been following them the whole time; reunited, Will and Jack go after Davy Jones' chest. Unfortunately an old adversary of Jack's, Lord Norrington, was also after the chest, and so begins a three-way sword fight. Worse yet, Davy Jones and his gang of scurvy sea-dogs arrive too. Jack takes the key from Will, opens the chest and removes the heart. Norrington continues to battle Will and Jack and secretly swipes the heart, escapes Davy Jones and his crew, and delivers the heart to Lord Beckett! As for Davy Jones, he and his crew set sail aboard the Flying Dutchman with an empty chest; Jack, Will, Elizabeth and the Black Pearl crew set sail and soon find themselves wrapped in the tentacles of the hungry Cracken. They attempt to fight off the monster, but attempts proved futile. Elizabeth learned the monster was really after Jack, so she cuffs him to the mast and escapes with Will and the crew. As for Captain Jack Sparrow, he had put up a good fight, but in true hero fashion, he allowed himself, and the Pearl, to be taken... Will, Elizabeth, Gibbs and the crew lament over the loss of Jack and realize he was a decent man after all. They visit Tia Dalma again, who tells of a possible way to bring Jack back, but it would require sailing to the world's end. They were willing, so Dalma assigned a familiar captain to guide them. They couldn't believe who it was! To be continued...Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest. I think it was better than the first movie. It was funny and action-packed! Johnny Depp was fantastic as everybody's favorite fearless, poignant and naive pirate, Captain Jack Sparrow. Orlando Bloom, great as Will. The incredibly sexy Keira Knightley shines as Elizabeth. We've also got Bill Nighy as Davy Jones, Jack Davenport as Norrington, and Stellan Skarsgard as Bootstrap Bill; Entertaining, funny, thrilling, but a tad violent for a Disney movie. It will make you greatly anticipate Pirates of the Caribbean 3, due next year. Will they be able to save Jack? And what of Davy Jones? Did Bootstrap Bill survive? So anyway, if you're looking for a swashbuckling, thrill ride to see this summer, then set sail with Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest! I recommend it, mateys!
__label__9 The early signs were not good, tales of production problems galore and early critical notices wading in to kick the film before it had even had a run at the theatres. The Lone Ranger seemed destined to be a blockbuster stinker. Yet in spite of it noticeably alienating original Lone Ranger purists, and some Western lovers as well, for a rollicking action fun packed time then Gore Verbinski's movie delivers in spades. It's awash with the serial silliness of adventure films and TV shows of yore, pitching good guys against bad guys with buddy buddy shenanigans pulsing away at the core. The stunts are outrageously enjoyable, the landscape photography as beautiful as it is respectful in homage to past masters of the Western genre, while in Depp's Tonto there's a bona fide hero to root for just as much as he makes you laugh out loud. This is an origin story, a tale of how John Reid (Armie Hammer) became The Lone Ranger, and of course how the noble steed Silver and Indian side-kick Tonto became integral to his villain fighting ways. Tom Wilkinson and William Fitchner file in for polar opposite villain duties, the former is the weasel business man trying to mould the West in is own image, the latter a repugnant psychopath with a penchant for eating human hearts! Then Helena Bonham Carter wanders in from some Grindhouse movie for a couple of cameos that are resplendent with sexual energy. It's all very wacky and wild, and rightly so, but this is not at the expense of very good story telling. Some parts of the narrative could have been trimmed, but as the bromance builds between our two heroes, and Silver gets up to all sorts of comedy horse escapades, there's nary a dull moment here. Producer Jerry Bruckheimer and director Verbinski throw all the action staples into the pot. Chases, fights, swinging from ropes, shoot-outs, people dangling from speeding train (pic is bookended by awesome train sequences), grisly deaths and on it goes from start to end. There's caustic asides to the machinations of organisations of the time, from railroad magnates to the cavalry, while the catchphrases and legends of The Lone Ranger TV series are deftly inserted into the tale. It was interesting to see Depp come out and defend the movie against those damning early critic reviews, it's not something he does, being as he is very much a guy who sees acting as just a job. Bruckheimer, Hammer and Verbinski backed Depp up, stating that some reviews were written before the film had even been released, the big budget and production problems clearly making this a big stinker Not so, it's certainly not flawless, and those seriously into anachronisms are likely to have kittens. But if you haven't seen it yet, if you was put off by the venomous early reviews, then give it a chance, you may just be surprised at just how entertaining it is. It also looks and sounds brilliant on Blu-ray, where repeat viewings even show Hammer to be better than first thought as that masked man. 8.5/10
__label__9 Just got back from seeing it and we were thoroughly entertained. Depp and Hammer were fantastic in their roles and the action was over the top, as expected. Be advised, this film is told from Tonto's point of view based on his recollections of what transpired. This is not an Oscar contender, nor was it ever intended to be, but it is a great popcorn flick. It is violent in certain scenes and may not be suitable for smaller children, but for adults and tweens, it is about right. I did think that the first 10-15 mins or so were a little too slap-sticky for me, but once it gets going, it gets good. To all of the naysayers out there, what did you think you were going to see? It is essentially a western Pirates of the Caribbean, and Depp portrayed his character with the usual humorous persona he always does.
__label__9 It wasn't hard to outdo the preachy contrived plot of the 2003 Ranger movie, but this one took a step beyond to become a mainstay.First, it is an adventure film, a Western adventure. The Lone Ranger is a mystique character, and part of the challenge is that he tries to bring men to justice alive. Same for Superman. If they didn't have this challenge, they would have no conflict whatsoever. It makes for a puzzle.Tonto takes center stage here, but unlike the 2003 disaster, he is a character instead of a symbol of a godlike race. Here, no favorites are played. The most evil ones in this story are a pair of white men, and other white men they enlist, but we aren't given sermons about this.Depp is great as Tonto. The museum scenes are a bit too much for me, but it is good for the kids. The out of sequence bits work, partly because they aren't emphasized too much. Depp, as Tonto, craftily plays this with a subtle humor, and that is just what is needed for this.There is the magic and mystique of the Ranger, but also an explanation given for it, as "Nature out of balance". We are dealing with a supernatural chain of events which do allow the Lone Ranger to ride a horse through and on top of railroad cars.Great blend of humor and adventure, and at the same time a crafty blend of Shakespeare and Indiana Jones. This is better than what meets the eye, and what meets the eye is extra special in itself, with plenty of eye candy for men and women.
__label__9 Once again Disney, Bruckheimer and Depp make for an excellent movie experience. When you watch a television show in black and white growing up, you don't always know what to expect as an adult to see it as a feature length film. I enjoyed this movie tremendously. The storytelling and writing was excellent. The fact that Lone Ranger isn't a "Disney character" meant that I had no other reference but the television show to go on. This is one you have to pay attention to. Don't get up in the middle to get a refill on your popcorn because you may very well miss part of the story. Depp plays an older tormented Tonto sharing his experiences meeting the Lone Ranger with a young boy who attends the local carnival. And so the story begins. The element of greed in American history and what it can influence people to do is closely examined throughout the film. Therefore you get entertainment and a lesson and it's cleverly written so that even young adults will get it. No need to explain how dad and granddad use to watch it in black and white back in the day. This is one of the better "reboots" of the summer.
__label__9 Am a big Johnny Depp fan, but wasn't sure if I would believe him as the character of Tonto. Well, he did a fantastic job and Armie Hammer is not bad to look at either. This was a very entertaining and feel-good movie. My husband liked it as well. Knowing who the Lone Ranger is or having watched him as a child is not pertinent in watching this film. I don't recommend it for small children as there are some bloody moments. In our stress filled lives, we all need an escape and watching this movie made me forget all of my troubles and get lost in this story. I really hope it does well and maybe even have a sequel. I recommend it highly to everyone. Sit back and just be entertained.
__label__9 Hammer and Depp play well together in retelling of classic early television western. Hammer is district attorney sent back to his boyhood frontier town in the midst of "progress" - the linkage of continental rail service, dealing with the local Comanche tribe, and exploitation of silver deposits. Hammer is deputized when his brother, a Texas Ranger, needs a posse to chase the evil Butch Cavendish gang. Depp is solo Comanche shunned by his own tribe who is entangled in the various doings. Having Wilkinson as the local authority is worth at least one additional star, Depp is worth one or two extra stars himself for his very amusing if mildly predictable playing of Tonto. Some of the location scenery is spectacular. The movie doesn't quite make a 10 because it's a tad too long and the special effects are just a tad too unbelievable. But well done, and the telling of the story from Tonto's point of view is a bonus. There's nothing groundbreaking here but it's a fun ride.
__label__9 For those who disliked this movie, what is it you want? Depth to a story, development for the background characters that define Superman, incredible cinematography, and an epic superhero battle unlike anything ever seen before? I've always found it interesting that 2 of the best Superman films, Superman Returns and this movie, are often torn apart by people that have no idea what they're talking about. Stop the hate! Make some popcorn and enjoy!
__label__9 The trailers of this movie were released in a so effective way that you start to fear if the product will fill your expectations. And with the usual critics-know-about-everything-nothing-is-good- to-me reviews the chances of be confused about this are increasing. As high as the expectations were raised after trailers, i have to tell you that you will not disappointed with this movie. Is different in many ways to the usual superhero movies but is a solid product that fits in what you expect from this kind of film. Nice references to previous movies are well executed and new plot additions are well received too. As you can expect from a Zack Snyder movie, there are several scenes that try to resemble graphic novel arts and in my opinion are very well made. Some of the nicest things about this movie is the way they made the fast moving scenes. The most of them (unfortunately i can't say all of them) look very realistic according laws of physics, the CGI are so well made that you wish that development for many movies you seen before. The movements are what you expect if such kind of people exist in reality. About the plot, i believe this is the more controversial point of what i see in reviews across the internet. Most moviegoers like it a lot, but are critics the ones ( not all of them) that are giving mixed reviews. What you realize is that critics expect another Dark Knight but this movie is not looking to be a darker one of your beloved Superman. If you are smart enough to understand that this is ANOTHER hero you will be happy with the story. If you are looking for a fourth darker than Batman movie for sure you will agree with critics giving bad reviews. This is a Superman movie and in that scenario this is a very good one.The movie has some flaws to me for sure ( i don't know about a perfect movie) but i will not comment about that as i believe everyone need to discover by themselves what - if any- dislike for their preferences. In summary this is a super hero movie that even Marvel fans will appreciate as is giving a whole new level to a classic story, turning the most beloved hero in an actual hero and mixing a great graphic novel specialist with great digital artists to give you a full action packed movie that make a good foundations for sequels.
__label__9 I really enjoyed this movie. I am a big fan of action and superhero movies, and this did not disappoint. First of all I thought they did a great job on casting Superman. Henry Cavill fits the role perfectly. I liked the supporting cast, except thought they could have done better with Lois Lane. The plot starts out with Superman (Kal-El) being born, and quickly jumps into him being in his 20's and saving people. They show some of his growing up, through flashbacks but I wish they would have done more of this. You don't have to see any previous Superman movies to see this one, you get the whole back story. There was a ton of good action scenes, almost too much I thought. Plot was pretty good, but also pretty predictable. I saw the 3-D version, and I am not a big fan of 3-D. While this movie did not give me a headache, like 'The Hobbit', I didn't think the 3-D added that much, and I would recommend seeing the 2-D version! Overall I gave it a 9/10. Good action, fun, entertaining movie.
__label__9 I have never been a hardcore superman fan, but I was fortunate enough to see an early showing of Zack Snyder's reboot. And I must say, I am quite impressed. Casual moviegoers and superhero fans will find something to enjoy. Man of Steel has great wreck- everything action that makes full use of 3D effects and simply looks awesome. The story is decently paced, and fueled by strong performances by Michael Shannon and Russell Crow(e). The character Perry White wasn't used to his full potential, but that's forgivable. If you're a fan of classic superman, you might be disappointed by the fact that this man of steel is pretty up- tight. He has only two or three lines that are humorous, making him less charming then the Christopher Reeve superman. The charm is replaced by the character development the man of steel experiences when he must choose between his past and his future. (that makes for an awesome showdown, by the way.) To summarize, I give Man of Steel an 8.6 for it's portrayal of a classic American hero.
__label__9 Having just come back from a screening of Prince Caspian, I can honestly say that I got the movie fresh in my mind...and it was amazing! Not only was it better than the first in every way - the story, the acting, the screenplay - but it managed to have more of an edge without sinking into the pitfall that movies such as Pirates of the Caribbean have slipped into.Meaning that unlike the Pirates sequels (don't get me wrong, I love Pirates, but this is something that bothered me a little), the makers of Prince Caspian did not believe that to make it better and more exciting, they had to gore and bloody it up. Instead, while it is darker, the blood and gore is kept to a bare minimum considering this is an action flick.Anyway, that now aside, I highly recommend this! It's a great movie - great action scenes, a tad bit of romance but not overly so, and a good plot. Plus the young cast are even better in this film than they were in the first, and Ben Barnes - well, it's right that he is the title character,because he very nearly would have stolen the floor from underneath the original kids if they were even the slightest bit less perfect (William Moseley was the weakest of the five, as he was in the last movie, but he still stepped it up quite a bit).Granted, I've not read the books, so I don't know if this is as dedicated to the book as many fans would like it to be. Then again, most movies adapted from the books never are. However, if they can find it in them to accept changes for theatrical purposes, I'm sure even the most die-hard fans will admit it "wasn't bad."
__label__9 LA Review of 'The Avengers' (No spoilers)I was lucky enough to attend the Marvel screening of 'The Avengers' on Saturday morning in Century City, CA. This was an unusual screening as movies of this caliber are not screened some three weeks before it's release date. Just minutes before the movie started, we were all surprised when writer/director Joss Whedon walked in with Kevin Feige to introduced their little "Justice League" movie. Not only did we all laugh, but some booed. lol. If that wasn't enough of a surprise, the soft spoken Whedon introduced on stage Chris Hemsworth (Thor), Tom Hiddleston (Loki), Clark Gregg (Agent Coulson) and Cobie Smulders (Agent Maria Hill). Wow is she stunning in person! The audience gave them all a standing ovation with deafening cheers! (This explained why the secret service like security were searching, wanding everyone. No cameras, cell phones, nothing was allowed in.) What a nice surprise for an early Saturday morning screening. I've never read comic books. This is a comic book movie. It was made for hardcore fans of comics, and I appreciate the care Joss Whedon gives to this movie. It was very entertaining to see Tony Stark (Iron Man), Thor, Dr. Bruce Banner (Hulk), Steve Rogers (Captain America), Natasha Romanoff (Black Widow), Clint Barton (Hawkeye), Agent Maria Hill, Agent Phil Coulson and Director Nick Fury all interact with one another. Capt. Steve Rogers was fighting in WWII just yesterday. Having been recently awoken from his frozen sleep, he struggles to fit in our modern world with all this technology around us. The God of Thunder, Thor, is not from this world (realm) and doesn't understand modern technology on Earth as well. Dr. Bruce Banner has been on the run from the government, practicing medicine in third world countries. He hasn't been the Hulk in two years (What's his secret? ;). Tony Stark is still the same, playing with this high tech toys and inventing new technology. So how do you get them all to interact and play well together? Well, Director Joss Whedon is the secret to making it all work. The highlight of the film for me is how Joss Whedon has all these characters interact. Deep character development was not needed for this film. (That is what the respective movies are for: Thor, Iron Man, The Incredible Hulk, Captain America: The First Avenger) He does a great job of not forcing dialogue, and the interaction of the characters is much more organic than I would have ever anticipated. That is where Whedon deserves the most credit. He took what appears to be a very silly premise, with silly looking characters and made it completely work. Seeing as the Avengers comics date back to the 1960s, you can tell he not only did his homework, but he really cares deeply for the material, and his passion definitely shows on- screen. The movie is vastly entertaining. The Action scenes are amazing and satisfying. Nobody is short changed when it comes to the fighting or action sequences. I felt as if there was not a single bad performance. A couple of dialogue lines seemed off, but once you remember who the character is, and why they talk the way they do (think of where they come from), it all makes sense. Each respective character is true and honest to itself. Each of the characters brought their personality (from their respective movie) to the table. It is by far the best Marvel movie to date.So who was my personal favorite character from the movie? Dr. Bruce Banner (played by Mark Ruffalo) of course! He is by far the BEST Bruce Banner/Hulk since Bill Bixby. His intelligence (genius) is unparalleled (greater than Tony Stark's) and his compassion for human lives is what drives the good side of his character. As a kid growing up, he was my favorite Marvel super hero. I enjoyed watching Bill Bixby play medical doctor/physicist Dr. David Banner on television. I'd watch, terrified with my hands up to my face, as he transformed into the raging green hulk. Yet i was so fascinated with him being a scientist, helping those in need. When Mark Ruffalo was first announced to play Bruce Banner, i didn't know what to think of it. I knew that he's a good actor. All he needs is the right director to get the needed on-screen character out of him. I really hope they make an Incredible Hulk movie sequel starring Mark Ruffalo as Dr. Bruce Banner. Or at least, i vote for him to reprise his role in any sequel. He was a natural fit for this role. Overall, the best thing about these characters is that they are not silly twenty-something terrible actors who were chosen for on-screen eye candy. They all do a fine job of bringing these characters to life and their chemistry together works great. Assembled, they are unstoppable. When i heard an Avengers movie was rumored to be in the works, i was ecstatic. The day has finally come. Go see it. Thrice. 10/10 Stars.
__label__9 Knowing a little bit about comic books, and knowing some about Avengers Assemble it made this film The Avengers, directed by Joss Whedon, even more enjoyable for me.When Earth comes under attack by Asgardian Loki (Tom Hiddleston) in his pursuit to get the Tesseract, it is up to S.H.I.E.L.D. to pull start up The Avengers. After a small town is almost completely destroyed by Thor on a previous visit to Earth S.H.I.E.L.D. decided that they needed something that could take on anything that was not from "this world". So when Nick Fury calls on some of the biggest heroes Earth has ever met: Iron Man (Robert Downey Jr.), Hawkeye (Jeremy Renner), Black Widow (Scarelett Johansson), The Hulk (Mark Ruffalo), Captain America (Chris Evans), and of course Thor (Chris Hemsworth).The theme of this movie in my opinion would be Man vs. Man. This is because throughout the entire film there is some sort of conflict going on. The first and main conflict that appears is Loki attacking S.H.I.E.L.D. takes control of Hawkeye and Dr. Selvig in order to steal the Tesseract and use it for his own purposes. A second conflict that appears in the film is between Thor and Loki. When Thor still considers them brothers Loki retaliates and says that he is not really his brother and that he should still be the "true" ruler of Asgard.With the costumes that have been chosen for this film it helps to create the aspect of the heroes being more than a normal human. Even with Hawkeye and Black Widow, Black Widow had been trained pretty much from birth to become a killer, and Hawkeye has advance skills in marksmanship. With Thor's costume he is wearing something that helps to prove that he is not from Earth and from another world. Now for Iron Man, he made his own super suit that could do almost anything, which includes keeping him safe from being torn up from the roaders on the ship that S.H.I.E.L.D. was functioning from after an attack from Loki and his minions.Finally, in the final attack with Loki and The Avengers, Thor takes Loki back to Asgard to deal with his faults there where the intention is for him to be properly punished.This is a must see film especially if you are a comic book junkie!
__label__9 I think any viewer, buying a ticket for this film, is aware of what he expects to see on the screen. Recently, the film industry has been criticized for the abundance of projects of a purely entertaining nature, including the "Avengers". However, if you look closely - it turns out that there is not so much really good and quality entertainment cinema. Some films are boring, some are bluntly stupid; and, for the most part, it turns out that "entertainment" can be called only a few luxuriously shot scenes, and at other times the viewer is forced to entertain himself with popcorn and cold cola. So the "Avengers" is a completely different case.I'm not a fan of comic books, and the attitude towards this genre is rather negative, because of its total zashtamovannosti and uncompromising pathos. However, seeing such a spectacle as the "Avengers", it's hard not to leave your sarcasm aside, and fully enjoy the proposed attraction. Director Joss Weedon, in the beginning, caused me to distrust, in spite of the mass of laudatory reviews, his "Mission Serenity" did not impress me at all; However, in this case, a clear and confident direction is felt throughout the film. Weedon is also responsible for the script, and here I want to note how competently it is worked out to fill the picture with action to the eye, not forgetting about the meaningfulness and clear drawing of the characters' characters. It is a balanced scenario that makes the film look "in one go," and the characters look so charismatic, as necessary for a positive perception of the picture.
Undoubtedly, Marvell approached the project very seriously, presenting "Torah" and "First Avenger" last year, these films being technically quite successful in themselves, at the same time became an effective prelude to the main movie event Marvel. And the creators did their best to make the film truly an event that surpassed its historical predecessors. Since almost all the characters are familiar to the viewer, and the story itself is simple and understandable - it makes it possible to fill the picture with spectacular action to the point that it seems unbelievable how all this can fit into one film, even if it lasts more than two hours. At the same time, this is not the case when the entire film is thrown at different locations, trying to diversify the action in this way. The bulk of events takes place on the ship Nick Fury and in New York, but everything is done so qualitatively that not how much it tires. The scene of the massacre in the city in the final is fascinating, although the "scene" is not called the language, because of its wide time frame. For a very long time the heroes will fight the enemy; everything will jump, fly and explode; and all this in an excellent high-quality 3D. And although the film is not without pathos, I was pleased that the question of the police "Who are you to command here?" Captain America did not begin to pronounce his name, which the Russian viewer perceives with his teeth, but simply showed in deed.Of course, there is a lot of humor in the film. However, if, for example, in the same "Sea Battle" creators used humor as a saving thread, literally pulling the picture from the abyss in certain places; in "Avengers" it is, albeit an obligatory, but an equal part of the overall structure, which works in a complex. This is not the option when you close your eyes to some flaws due to some pluses (an abundance of humor, for example) because there are no obvious shortcomings in all parameters of the production of the film. And the humor itself - yes, sometimes even stiff and sarcastic, chuckling over the heroes and reducing the extra degrees of pathos. In this regard, it is not superfluous to mention that Joss Weedon also had a hand in creating the scenario "Huts in the Forest", but here, of course, everything is in a softer framework.To say that "Avengers" is a typical entertaining movie would be fundamentally wrong - in fact Marvel was removed practically by the standard representative of the genre, which uses every minute of its timing as effectively as possible. Mass of spectacular action, magnificent picture in high-quality 3D, wonderful soundtrack, sarcastic humor and nice characters. It is this film that should be considered a grandiose opening of the summer season of blockbusters, as it really sets a very high level.
__label__9 I just saw the early screening for San Diego through the top 10 cities on facebook who got them. And suffice to say I am glad I was privileged enough to.First off, this hands down is the best Marvel movie ever. I don't say that lightly. And in terms of superhero movie with maybe the Nolan Batman series being tied with this, I thought Whedon did an amazing job to bring out all these characters in this one movie. I especially like what was done with Hawkeye and Black Widow just because those two didn't really have their individual movie with their back story. You can tell when a comic book fan writes and directs a comic movie because it clearly showed in all areas of production for this film. Going into the film I honestly thought that a lot of the cool mutant action scenes would be strictly Iron Man and Captain America. But Whedon does such a great job giving each mutant their 15 mins of fame and by the end of it you seriously feel like "Wow this guy/chick is a badass" for every mutant. I will admit i am not a Hulk fan. I like the inner story for it but was never a fan of the films, show or comic. But Hulk's role in the movie is so awesome I became a fan just from it. If any of you are Whedon fans then you guys/girls will love this movie. It has his M.O. written all over the humor and story presentation. And there were definitely parts in the movie where I thought "Wow this seems like Firefly and Serenity". And story aside, if you read, watched, or idolized Marvel superheros as a kid, the action alone will make you cheer just out of sheer nostalgia of imagining The Avengers or X-Men all together on the screen kicking ass. In summation, I don't need to say you NEED to watch this movie because I think anybody who is anybody already knows they want to see this. All this review has done was just reaffirm the hype behind this movie. I don't say this much but job well done Marvel and Disney for hiring a writer/director who has the audaciousness to keep it honest and true for those most dedicated comic fans who are the backbone of Marvel comics being a success. And in this day and age of superhero movies and movies in general that is very hard to do. Cheers Joss Whedon!
__label__9 Each plot of the movie make us curious of what comes next. The direct know how to manage every superheroes and villains in balance, all of them has unique strange. We keep wondering how Iron Man look so cool and why Captain America is a serious patriot. The effect and CGI are also outstanding. And as usual, Marvel will give so many easter eggs for geeks to find out. The success of this movie come up when Iron Man franchise along with Captain America: the first avenger and Thor released previous years. The Avenger can be main contender for best superheroes movies against DC's Dark Knight Rise though I prefer Marvel movies. I suggest all Marvel/superheroes movies lover to watch this movie. period.
__label__9 I'm not going to spoil anything or get very technical here. I don't usually write reviews. I did so because this movie took me back to my childhood like no other movie did.Sure, it's not intellectually pretentious or groundbreaking from a cinematic or storytelling point of view, but it delivers perfectly.The wit, conflict, adventure, heart and sense of wonder that I once found in my crazy uncle's attic, slumbering inside those weird looking and dusty Marvel Magazines - populated with super-soldiers, handsome flying scientists, Norse gods, green monsters and incredibly hot chicks in black leather - are here.As I grew up, I somehow repressed the idea that there was no such thing as fictional happiness. These characters will never exist, and it sure takes suspension of disbelief to watch them run about. But this movie reminded me of what they made me feel before girls, party nights, college,taxes and other complicated, serious things came along. As the movie ended, I felt overwhelmed by the readjustment to reality as I knew it in my young adult life.I watched this with my 10 year old nephew. I don't know if that makes me the crazy uncle, but it sure was great to be back in that attic, even for a while. I always knew Hulk smashed. Now I know he always will.
__label__9 Firstly, this review does not contain any spoilers whatsoever so read on. I had the privilege to watch this in the El Capitan theater advanced screening. Johnny Depp, the goofy pirate that we have grown to love, returns to his iconic role of Captain Jack Sparrow in an action-packed tale of truth, betrayal, youth and demise.The plot is when Jack crosses paths with a woman from his past (Penelope Cruz), he's not sure if it's love—or if she's a ruthless con artist who's using him to find the fabled Fountain of Youth. When she forces him aboard the Queen Anne's Revenge, the ship of the formidable pirate Blackbeard (Ian McShane), Jack finds himself on an unexpected adventure in which he doesn't know who to fear more: Blackbeard or the woman from his past.By being a fan this franchise, I can happily confirm that YES, it is as good as the first one! Be ready for an adventure and half! Brings everything from the classic bizarre comedy to the nail biting action scenes.The marketing for the movie have been intelligently subliminal like some other great film releases, like Avatar, or Blair Witch (the real vs fake) and the recent awesome film production The Artifice (the-artifice.com) and so on.This is not a film to miss, does not matter if you are a die hard fan of Pirates, or new to the series! I might be in trouble for writing a review of the movie this early, so please click Yes on the "is this review useful" as a thank you ;)
__label__9 I have been a fan of the Men in Black movies since the original released in 1997. When MIB-II was finally out in 2002, I wondered why it took so long as Tommy Lee Jones and Will Smith seemed to work so well together, and their characters had that just right mix of complementing but contradicting personalities.Jones has long been a favorite of mine with some other highlight performances being the delightfully crazy villain in Under Siege (1992) and the hard nosed cop in The Fugitive (1993) and U.S. Marshalls (1998). His ability to make a facial expression the equivalent of the picture's 1000 words imho is up there with Humphrey Bogart.Smith has distinguished himself in action, comedy, and drama films alike. He is a quite versatile actor whose movies I will gladly check out just because he is starring.With MIB 3 coming another 10 years after MIB II, I once again wonder what took so long. While Jones's part as "K" is not so prominent as in the prior releases, he does well as the present day character. Smith follows the formula as "J" although the interaction with old "K" is a tad forced.The pleasant realization is that Josh Brolin performs admirably as the past, younger "K." Brolin is certainly a fine actor in his own right, but his effective portrayal of Jones' character is nothing short of remarkable. The key to the plot is that Brolin is "K" before whatever happened that turned "K" into such a detached curmudgeon.Also juicy was the villain's part done by Jermaine Clement as Boris (the animal).Besides all the action and suspense you expect with the good guys vs. bad guy alien stuff, and the touches of comedy here and there to break it up, there is a dramatic and quite poignant and touching twist that comes out of nowhere that answers why "K" appears to be such an unemotional person, and why "K" has such regard for "J." Top quality actors and performances, well done script, yeah, this one's a keeper.
__label__9 I was distinctly underwhelmed by the first two Hobbit movies, I thought they were good but just that "Good". They live in the shadow of the Lord Of The Rings movies and simply paled in comparison and so going into The Battle Of The Five Armies I expected more of the same.According to both IMDb and the profit margin this was the most poorly received of the franchise, clearly people did not like the film by comparison. But as usual, I have to be different.I consider this to not only be the best of the Hobbit franchise but also hot on the heels in quality as the LOTR trilogy.The story culminates beautifully and if you can get past the many changes that were made you'll see the finale of a wondrous tale and a battle on screen that blew me away.Once again the fantastic cast, stunning score, mind blowing effects and sheer beauty envelope you into the world of Middle Earth and I was gripped.Yes its not flawless, but it is pretty damn close.The Good:Amazing openingAction scenes are brutalJames NesbittEvangeline LillyThe Bad:Still a lot of changesFili's death was poorly done
__label__9 The Hobbit Trilogy will forever be one of those classic polarizing film trilogies where you either love em' or you hate em'. Were they as good as The Lord of the Rings? Hell NO (and it was unfair for anybody to judge them based on a different trilogy based on better books). Were any of the Hobbit movies unwatchable or boring, though? Definitely not. The first one may have been a little slow in the first 40-50 minutes, but after that it turned into a really good story. The fact that all 3 of them are positive on Rotten Tomatoes proves that they were under-appreciated by many Middle-Earth fans. Some people acted like we should be outside Peter Jackson's house with torches and pitchforks. They weren't THAT bad, and they also weren't Lord of the Rings-award winning-ridiculously awesome either.. They were good, not great. B+ work from Peter & Company. The Battle of the Five Armies was set up to be the best in the trilogy, but it did fall slightly short of what it could have been. I only had 3 problems with the film (and all 3 are forgivable because what I saw was still epic and satisfying). 1) One of the 5 armies from the book is completely missing from the battle. The orcs fight alongside a large army of wolves in the book, but they chose to just have 2 armies of orcs fighting alongside a handful of trolls, some bats, and maybe a few wolves. I assume the blu-ray extended version might include a lot more wolves/wolf-riders wreaking havoc. 2) Beorn played a HUGE part in turning the tide of battle in the book, but in the movie we only saw like 10 seconds of him fighting. I was hoping to see AT LEAST a minute of him slaying orcs/wolves left and right. 3) Most of the trolls were as large and fearsome as we would expect, but 3 trolls appear at different times in the film and looked about as stupid/cartoonish as they could be. Maybe those trolls were just supposed to be realistically deformed, but they were still distracting to me. Those 3 minor problems aside, I still think it was a really good film. It started out with one of my favorite chapters from the book ("Fire and Water") and we've been looking forward to that ever since Desolation of Smaug ended with the dragon flying straight to Lake Town. Then we got to see the White Council battling Sauron and his ringwraiths. After that there was some good character development, drama, and lots of action. The actors did a very fine job with their roles (especially Richard Armitage and Martin Freeman), and the visual effects were stunning. Overall, I enjoyed this return to Middle- Earth and I thank Peter & Company for what they've done with the entire Middle-Earth Saga.
__label__9 I first was going to see another movie, but my cousin wanted to see this. I walk into the movie theater thinking: 'Yeah this'll probably suck and be boring' and came out with chills. I saw this movie in 3D and it felt like I was there with the actors, in all the scenes! Of course the fight scenes were a little bland and they could have added a little more action. But the part when Peter is Spider-man and he was doing flips up in the air, also swinging across buildings, literally gave me an adrenaline rush. It was an amazing feeling.But the best part of this movie wasn't the action, but the chemistry between Peter (Andrew Garfield) and Gwen (Emma Stone). Every time they had a scene together, I could absolutely tell that they were in love. Their love story was one of the best parts of this movie because it blossomed from them being cute and flirty, to being completely head over heels in love with each other. They were both charming but also pulled it off as their character very well; Emma as the intelligent, graceful Gwen, and Andrew as the cute, but awkward and nerdy Peter. They were definitely the highlights of this film.Like every movie, it had it's flaws. I think that they could have chosen a better villain than 'The Lizard'. Don't get me wrong, Rhys Ifans was a good actor in this film but his character just felt rushed to me. One moment I see him as a brilliant, kind-hearted scientist to him then becoming psychotic and turning himself into a giant green monster way too quickly. Also, I didn't think he looked like a lizard at all. Honestly, I think once he turned into 'The Lizard' he looked a lot like 'Lord Voldemort' from 'Harry Potter'. He was the only character I had an issue with though everyone else was great and was perfect for their part.Another issue, that a lot of people complained about was the lack of thrilling fight scenes. The fight scenes in this movie were a little cliché like you have seen it in another action movie. Also the fight scenes just kind of came and went. They were so quick and just very boring, like you knew every move Spider-Man (AKA Peter) was going to make. I thought they should have put a little more effort into these scenes and they should've put a lot more action into them.Honestly, overall this is a terrific movie! Despite some flaws, I think it is definitely worth seeing. Andrew and Emma are very charming in their parts and look adorable together on-screen. It has some cute lines were I had to laugh out loud because they were just really funny! If you like a super-hero movie with a comedic and romantic twist into it, I think you will enjoy this movie!
__label__9 I admit that I too didn't exactly get that excited when I heard that this was in the making. The Sam Raimi trilogy was a fun ride, and the idea of making another Spider-Man movie with a completely new cast seemed strange and unnecessary. When the cast was announced, I got a little bit curious, but nothing more.However, when I watched it, I got a whole other impression. I really liked it. The atmosphere was great, and perhaps a little darker than the Sam Raimi movies at times. I know many of you who read this will hate me for saying this, but I actually think this movie was a LITTLE bit better that the previous ones. Not much, but just a hint better. One thing is the cast. I really didn't like Tobey Maguire as Spider-Man that much. I didn't have a huge problem with him back then, but now when I saw this, I must say that I like Andrew Garfields "version" better. He's a little more tougher, both physically and in personality. Also, I think Emma Stone did good as Gwen Stacy. I liked her better as Peter Parker's girlfriend than Kirsten Dunst. The Villain, too, was great. I won't say more about him, not wanting to spoil anything.When I read many of the reviews in here, I don't see much positivity about this movie. I think that's unfair. At least, it's mediocre. Giving this a 1/10 is criminally wrong. At least I think so. If you wonder if you should see this or not, at least give it a chance. Don't let the bad reviews scare you away.
__label__9 I don't want to say that this was better than the 2002 Spider Man, I think they are both good in there own right, this film does things a little bit better than the first film, but both films where good in there way.Peter Parker(Andrew Garfield) a smart 19 year old, with a huge chip on his shoulder, who has a secret crush on Gwen Stacey(Emma Stone), lives with his Uncle Ben and Aunt May(Martin Sheen and Sally Field), still trying to figure out what happened to his parents, only to discover that his dad worked with Curt Conners(Rhys Ifans), while visiting his lab, is bitten by radioactive spider, and gains the powers of a spider. Okay there is so much more that I do not want to give away.Andrew Garfield was great as Peter Parker, I liked the way he does not try to be carbon copy of Tobey Mcguires Spider Man, but playing the part in his own way. Emma Stone was super charming as Gwen Stacey, she really brought a lot to the film, and she and Garfield have incredible chemistry. Martin Sheen and Sally Field are also great here. Not to mention Denis Leary and Rhys Ifans. And the effects don't disappoint either.
__label__9 I enjoyed this movie because it was a superhero film with many funny bits. I like to be able to laugh while watching a movie, not just watch loads of CGI action. I also liked the fact that the villain wasn't killed just defeated and put in prison, giving him a second chance. However, I do believe that was partially do to the fact that the producers/writers wanted something to write a future film on. I think that Andrew Garfield and Emma Stone did exceptionally in their roles. Garfield really seemed to actually be Peter Parker and I love to see that in a film. Although this movie is a superhero movie I do believe it was geared toward a younger audience, unlike the Dark Knight. The fact that Spider-man is a teenager in this one and that it is not nearly as dark as some other films certainly convinced me of this. I recommend this to anyone who enjoys action and superheroes. Side note: Denis Leary was great!
__label__9 Alrighty this movie was awesome! Yeah it could of used a little here and there, but the fact of the matter is that it is SPIDER-MAN. I am a comic fan, and after watching this I could agree that they captured the true spider-man, not some Toby creationThe moment i realized that he was building his own web slinger i knew that this was going to be good! I loved how Spider-man made funny jokes, he didn't shoot his fingers as guns and people walking by, he actually was funny, nerdy, and AWESOME!!! Gwen Stacey is great! Dr. Connors is amazing, when he transforms its gnarly, it gives you the feel of how he is being taken over.There are some plot errors, like how does he get the web slinger stuff, and what happens to the semi transformed cops, while they are transformed. but other than that it flows pretty nicely.
__label__9 I went into this film fearing the worst. I had become concerned over the past months as it became increasingly clear that the film was at great risk of losing direction, the vision if you will, that had drawn readers to the books series in the first place. That it was doomed. I feared this strange kind of anti-Narnia, was likely being so diluted that BO disaster was certain. That may still be the case if the bulk of early reviews are to be believed (but see Ebert's all-out glowing review.) Admittedly, the movie probably works better if you have read the first book (I had), but those readers are precisely the people who would likely complain the most. I worried and yet . . .Despite its breathtaking pace, both in terms of action and concept introduction -- we all agree this is not your typical fantasy -- the Golden Compass worked for me. I thought the people involved had done the best they could in making this movie tell the story, making the best possible film despite the conflict and panic that must have gone into it. The sincerity shows. The cast is superb, the action sequences, the effects, the sheer look of the film, are triumphs. I stayed through all the credits, which seemed to last for almost as long as the movie, and good gracious, what a lot of people worked on this! It's expensive all right, but the money is all on the screen. These people should be saluted.Dakota Blue Richards (it appears if you want your daughter to have a movie career these days, you had best name her Dakota) in a great year for the debut of young actresses, stands out as the best of them. She has poise, indomitable courage, fierce determination and it just keeps coming. The whole movie depends on her and if she had faltered, they truly would have had a disaster on their hands, a "calender" movie with no where to go and nothing to do. Whatever the ultimate financial fate of the film, I think young Miss Richards has a great future ahead of her.So I am recommending the film highly, though I respect the objections that have been made against it. I think if people just relax and go with it they will find themselves enjoying it immensely. However, if you grit your teeth and go into critic mode, yep, you guess it, you won't enjoy it at all.As for myself, I would have liked the producers to have gone with the original extended version - everyone knows the last few minutes were cut. Moreover, with a full three hour version just like "Lord of the Rings," I think all the objections would have been met. A director's cut will likely appear some day and I think at that point people will realize how great this movie truly is. Such an enhanced cut would fill in a lot of the details of this world, more fully develop the scenes and characters, and truly give a feeling of being part of the adventure, instead of just watching it. Of course, for the Golden Compass series, by then it may well be too late.Here's hoping it's not (I dare not say praying). Here's hoping that audiences will respond so this noble beginning of a great philosophical adventure and permit it to continue.It's all bottom line at this point, folks.
__label__9 This film is simply amazing. The best remake I have ever seen, expect nothing but aces in the drama and action department in this film. Peter Jackson manages to helm one hell of a movie, and what is destined to be 2005's top film.Never have I seen a CG Character garner so much emotion. If you thought the first film is heartbreaking, this one down right makes it tough to not shed at least a tear by the end of the film.By the way, once the action starts in this film, it NEVER let's up. A beautiful yet sad film, I can't wait to see it again.Those who are afraid that this film might do anything to take away from the original, do not worry. The time and setting of this film really keeps the original's spirit intact, while carving some fantastical new ground of it's own. Though some of the actual scenery here and there may look a bit fake, you will never ever think that about the main ape himself.
__label__9 I avoided watching this film for the longest time. Long before it was even released I had dismissed it as an over-hyped, over-blown, overly romanticized piece of Hollywood schmaltz, and I wanted nothing to do with it. I never watched it in the theatre. I shook my head in disbelief at the 11 Academy Awards - even though I had never seen it. Then I was asked to be a judge at a high school public speaking contest. One of the girls spoke about this movie. "It was so great," she said. "You really felt like you were on the ship." "Nonsense," I thought. I shared my feelings with my fellow judges. One looked at me and said, "you might be right, but if she liked the movie that much maybe she'll want to learn more about the real Titanic. The movie must have done something right to get her so interested." "Well, maybe," thought I. Then it finally appeared on Pay TV. "OK," I thought, "I'll give it a look see." I didn't want to like it - and I didn't. I loved it! What a great movie.Where to start? First - the directing. My high school public speaking contestant was right. James Cameron does a superb job of creating an almost "you are there" type of atmosphere. The gaiety of life aboard the most elegant ship in the world. The nonchalance as news of the iceberg first spreads; then the rising sense of panic. You don't just watch it; you really do feel it. Then - the performances. The lead performances from Kate Winslet (as Rose) and Leonardo DiCaprio (as Jack) are excellent - Winslet's being the superior, I thought, but both were good. They had their rich girl/poor boy characters down to a perfect "t" I thought. In my opinion, though, stealing the show was Frances Fisher as Rose's mother. She was perfect as the snobby aristocrat, and you could feel the fear and loathing she felt every time she looked at Jack. Then - the details. I'm no expert on the sinking of the Titanic, but I have a reasonable general knowledge, and this film does a super job of recreating the historical details accurately and then weaving them seamlessly around the fictional romance. Very impressive, indeed. Then - the song. Who can watch this movie and not be taken with Celine Dion's performance of "My Heart Goes On."Problems. Well, the romance was perhaps too contrived, in the sense that I just don't accept that Jack could have moved so effortlessly from steerage to first class. (I know he was invited the first time; but he seems to keep getting into first class without being stopped until he's been there for a while.) The realities of the separation of the social classes were much more realistically portrayed, I thought, when the steerage passengers were going to be left locked down there after the ship hit the iceberg while the first class folks got to enjoy half empty lifeboats. A minor quibble, though. This is truly an excellent movie. My only regret is not seeing it in the theatre, where I think it would have been so much more impressive.9/10
__label__9 Titanic directed by James Cameron presents a fictional love story on the historical setting of the Titanic.  The plot is simple, noncomplicated, or not for those who love plots that twist and turn and keep you in suspense. The end of the movie can be figured out within minutes of the start of the film, but the love story is an interesting one, however.  Kate Winslett is wonderful as Rose, an aristocratic young lady betrothed by Cal (Billy Zane). Early on the voyage Rose meets Jack (Leonardo DiCaprio), a lower class artist on his way to America after winning his ticket aboard Titanic in a poker game.  If he wants something, he goes and gets it unlike the upper class who are so concerned with their social worries.  The two fall in love and the audience sees the sinking of the Titanic primarily through their eyes.The movie begins in modern times with the exploration of the wreck by a group searching for treasures, that sunk with the Titanic, which has recently occurred.  One of the survivors of the Titanic, Rose DeWitt Bukater, who had heard of the exploration of the wreck on television and is flown to the boat where the search is being led from to tell of what she remembers to help the search.  She gets to telling her memory of the one and only voyage of the Titanic.  With this, the scene shifts to Southhampton, Ireland where the Titanic set sail from on April 10, 1912 as all the passengers are boarding.  After another stop on the Irish coast Titanic went out to see on its maiden voyage across the Atlantic bound for New York. Historically the first few days of the voyage went by uneventful, but the fictional plot of the story is developed during this time as Rose sees the hopeless entrapement of an engagement that she is in to the wealthy Cal Hockley and falls in love with third class passenger, Jack Dawson. Captain Smith alledgedly as shown in the movie was urged by the White Star Line Director to increase the speed of the ship so they would make the newspaper headlines and receive extra publicity by arriving in New York on Thursday night and not on Friday morning as planned.  Smith then ordered the fateful decision going against his thirty-two years of experience to stretch the Titanic's legs out to full speed.  The Titanic had reports that the waters in the Atlantic they were sailing in were full of icebergs, but they ignored these warnings and proceeded at full speed as shown in the movie.  On April 15, 1912 at 11:39, an iceberg was sighted.  They attempted to shut off the engines and turn the ship out of the path of the iceberg but there was not enough time and the ship hit the iceberg on the starboard side as depicted in the film.  The portrayal of the many small holes in the side of the ship and not one large gash along the side is accurate.  The crew of Titanic sent out distress calls and set off distress rockets as shown until 2:18 when the lights finally failed.  The lights of the California were spotted six miles away but they failed to realize what was going on and did not respond to Titanic's many pleas for help.  The California had tried earlier in the day to warn Titanic of the severe ice that had caused them to stop their trip but Titanic had brushed them off causing the California to turn off its radio and leave the Titanic on its own.  The first class women and children were the first as depicted to be put into the twenty lifeboats that were on the ship.  Overwhelmingly the third class passengers suffered the most amount of deaths of any class and the crew was hit hard in this tragedy too. The word of White Star Line employees and first class passengers was believed over that of second and third class passengers when authorities were trying to gain information of the sinking.  Also, the metal that was used to build the Titanic has been found in recent years under conditions of severe cold, which were experienced the night Titanic sank to be extremely brittle.  Overall, the basic plot is very accurate in its portayal of the events and the times at which these events took place on the Titanic.Many of the characters in the story were not real and created simply for the purpose of the movie or as composite characters to represent possible characteristics and ideas of people on the ship.  The core group of Rose, Jack, Cal, and Rose's mother all were fictional characters added into the story as they represent different groups of people from the time.  Yet many characters such as the Unsinkable Molly Brown; Captain Edward Smith; the ship designer, Thomas Andrew; the White Star Line Representative, Bruce Ismay; and all of the Titanic's officers were real.  The maiden voyage was going to be Captain Edward Smith's last voyage anyway as he planned to retire afterwards.  He had been a part of the White Star Line since 1880 where he worked his way up to his status as the Millionaire's Captain when the Titanic sunk.  The portrayals of the officers is accurate as only four survived the tragedy except for the officer who threatened to kill all of the passengers of the ship with his pistol.  He is on record as acting heroicly and was misportrayed to the point that James Cameron apologized and evoked a monument in his honor in the officer's former Canadian hometown. As shown in the movie there was a language problem between the crew and many of the lower-class passengers from non-English speaking nations.  In addition, Officer Lowe was the only officer who came back in the lifeboat as depicted.  The old people shown in their bed as the water came in their room were based on the Strauss'.  Not wanting to leave her husband's side Mrs. Strauss refused to get in her lifeboat and died with her husband on the Titanic.  Furthermore, Mr. Goggenheim who was shown sipping his brandy and smoking a cigar reportedly did go out like this dressed in his best.  The richest man on the ship, John Jacob Astor, who owned most of Manhattan died nonetheless as well, but his much younger wife was saved in a lifeboat. In addition, Molly Brown was saved and later had medals made up for the crew of the Carpethia that picked the survivors of Titanic up from the water.  Her ticket on the Titanic had cost over four-thousand dollars and by the end of her life she ended up broke.  All of the interiors of the ship were masterfully replacated down to the last pieces of china and silverware. The gymnasium, which is hardly seen is recreated perfectly with all of the machines reproduced to match those seen in old photographs.  The wonderful outfits and costuming were an excellent re-creation of the Post-Victorian era of 1912.  The rich at this time practically ruled everything, as the women's suffrage movement had not quite gotten moving yet.  Women during this time often married for financial security as Rose was considering doing and normally took a back seast status to their husbands as Cal wished for Rose to do.  The rich did not take well to `new money' such as Molly Brown as depicted.  Everything of the time was very formal.  Women had to be escorted to dinner by a male figure as seen with in the dining scenes. Smoking was not very common among women of the time but holders of cigarettes, which were just coming in at the time were used as seen with Rose in the movie.  Men of the time generally smoked cigars not cigarettes. Women were constained physically by their corsets and socially by society. Although James Cameron had no background in historical films he brought in experts of Titanic coupled with two years spent cross-referencing the history of the Titanic and few liberties were taken.  The beautiful cinematography and special effects also helped to make the film even more breathtaking.A recognizable message can be seen in the movie Titanic as the people on the ship had about three hours to contemplate their demise.  The director, James Cameron, shows the various reactions to this time of crisis in people's lives.  Everyone reacts differently and he gets you to think of how you might have reacted had you been in that situation on the Titanic on that fateful night.  In addition, this film is a reflection of the 1990's when it was produced as it gives a look into the wreck of the Titanic.  Only in the past fifteen years has the site of the actual Titanic been found and explored.  This movie was able to give us a deeper look into a disaster that many would not have viewed.  However, the moral question of whether people today should be taking treasures from the wreck of an underwater graveyard is posed.  There have been attempts to stop treasure seeking missions such as the one portrayed in Titanic but all have failed.  As it stands today anyone can make a voyage to the Titanic and take whatever valuables they as portrayed in the film showing the general values of our time on this matter.
Technically the film is very well done.  To get footage of the wreck at the bottom of the ocean it took twelve dives to get all of the footage needed for the movie.  In addition, a special camera had to be created to withstand the intense pressure at the bottom of the ocean.  Cameron did not plan on using the probe to go as far inside Titanic as anyone has in the 88 years since the ship sunk but it worked out that this provided an unique perspective into the ship.  Furthermore, throughout the film fade ins and outs from the wreck of Titanic to the scene of Titanic during its actual voyage.  This shift between the modern scene to the past scene during the voyage works as an excellent transition that makes the story easy to follow in aclear manner.  At the very beginning of the movie a septune recreation is used to recreate the scene when the actual people left the European coast on Titanic giving it distinction from the rest of the events of the film.Titanic plays almost like a historical biography and is like a work of art, a true epic.  Like most history novels, we know the ending, but it doesn't take away from the wonderful treats that can be found in this picture. Certain aspects of this film are Academy Award material including costuming, sound, cintematography, and editing.  If you like interesting characters that will give you an insight into the life of characters in the early 1900's and how they face disaster, then this movie definitely is for you.
__label__9 The Marvel universe gets tenser with the most-awaited "Civil War". For what fans clamor to be a storyline that the MCU is building towards, here comes a showdown of Marvel's biggest properties."Captain America 3" starts off where "Avengers: Age of Ultron" ended, when the New Avengers, led by Steve Rogers/Captain America (Chris Evans), are cornered by international concern in response to continuous collateral damage. As a result, a governing act is proposed to the Avengers, fracturing the team to two sides, one led by Rogers and another led by Tony Stark/Iron Man (Robert Downey Jr.). But when a new threat is on the horizon, the team has to face the repercussions of their brawls.It is a huge help that the Russo Brothers returned to hold the weights of Marvel's Phase Three, after their spontaneous effort in "The Winter Soldier". Though "Civil War" may not be as solid as its predecessor, it is still a worthy addition to the Avengers storyline and Captain America's saga. Yet, it excels for taking a mature route that brings a compelling character study, a token from the first Avengers movie. Out of such character study is the major theme of vengeance. I am not going to give any more details about it. It is best to be seen and be enamored by how such themes are delivered with an affecting yet entertaining vibe.Kudos to the cast ensemble that all brought their A-game, even though some characters are not that fleshed out, or feeling shoehorned. Evans is at his most moving as the fading patriot who wishes the best for his team and loved ones. Downey Jr. is still what we expected from RDJ. Scarlett Johansson as Black Widow has a neutral but affectionate presence, despite her rather little involvement. The rest of the cast is great to see, with notable breakout performances from Paul Rudd as Scott Lang/Ant-Man/Giant-Man, Chadwick Boseman as T'Challa/Black Panther and Tom Holland as Spider-Man/Peter Parker. And Daniel Bruhl as Helmut Zemo is a better addition to Marvel's lacking lineup of antagonists. But despite the cast's collective efforts, there is an obvious battle for screen time with all characters. Thankfully, it was all salvaged as the two parties brawl in a cleared airport, in an exhilarating action sequence that will surely make every audience member cheer.For all the makings of a summer blockbuster, "Captain America: Civil War" gets it all started right. Besides being a loyal companion to the comic book storyline, it is a worthy setup to Marvel's other properties and one that truly can hold on its own, courtesy of its consistent superhero action scenes, the Russo brothers' tense direction, the excellent cast, its thought-provoking themes and its exciting story with its signature Marvel snappy dialogue. Let us hope for the best for MCU's future, including Tom Holland's "Spider-Man".
__label__9 Split of the Greatest Heroes of the EarthThe film "The First Avenger: Confrontation" is the second loudest film comic this year, which tells us about the battle of superheroes against each other, after "Batman vs. Superman" and is a screen version of the comic "Civil War" - one of the most significant and large-scale events in the universe comics Marvel. As always, Marvel made a great movie. What did I like about it? Explain in order.1. The plot. In "Confrontation" the plot turned out to be very interesting and, most importantly, not trivial. It is difficult to determine until the very end which of the heroes is right and who is not, and even if you have taken some position, at the same time it is difficult not to understand the other side of this conflict. In this story, every hero, every team is both right and wrong. In the struggle of heroes, everything can not be clearly divided into black and white, and in this contradiction there is a huge plus of the plot of the picture.Humor, although it's not so much, is still present and remembered. Especially, in this regard, the scenes with the Person-Ant and the Spider-Man are strong.Also very pleased with the final of the picture, which turned out to be as contradictory and ambiguous as the confrontation itself.
2. Characters. Heroes and their motives are revealed in the film quite full and do not make them doubt. Of paramount importance are, of course, the leaders of the warring teams - Captain America and Iron Man.The captain does not appear to us as an ideal hero, but a man who is compelled to go against all to protect his friend and the ideals in which he believes.Iron man is also shown somewhat differently, he believes that all heroes need control and are ready to obey a new law, which, he believes, will be able to protect the world from new dangers.Among the new heroes is worth mentioning the Black Panther, who plays one of the main roles in the film. For him, the film is like a test before his own solo project and we get about him only an initial presentation.Of course, one can not help noticing the Spider-Man, who personally for me was one of the main reasons for going to the movies. The spider turned out really new. It's hard to say whether he will be the best of all previous ones, but I can say with confidence that he is already sharply different from his previous incarnations, largely due to the fact that the role was taken not by an adult, but by a real teenager. Separately, it is worth mentioning and the voice of the character, the voice reflects perfectly that the hero is just a child and an inexperienced superhero who is just starting his fight with Evil. In my opinion, the filmmakers correctly decided that they did not once again show the story of the origin of the character, but present it as a ready-made hero.The new villain Helmut Zemo turned out to be very interesting and memorable, thanks to the fact that he is the most ordinary person who managed alone, using only his mind and hatred, to resist the Avengers. It will be interesting to see this character in future films as well.
3. Action. Action, as in any film on the comic books Marvel, is one of the main components and here he, as usual, at the height. I have nothing more to add here.In the end, before us is one of the most successful films of the cinematic universe of Marvel, which allows us to take a fresh look at familiar characters and leaves us in a pleasant anticipation of future films.
__label__9 I was one of the few fortunate people who got to watch this early. This movie was everything i hoped Civil War to be. It was funny, got you emotionally involved and Action Packed. Yes! the action is done brilliantly. The best I've ever seen in a comic book movie. Maybe one of the best in movies in general. This movie is not your average comic book good vs evil movie. It's much of a clash between ideologies which was really interesting to see. I also have to talk about how Spiderman was portrayed in this movie. I really liked him. As expected he was not the focus of the movie. However, he was not just a cameo either. The few scenes he was in the movie was enough to like him. If i have to point out flaws there is hardly any. Marvel is almost perfect. Almost. I do have one problem with the movie. It was the main villain. Like other marvel villain, this villain just didn't work for me. The movie would have done fine even without the villain. It feels like he was just there because ...he was just there!. But it's not a deal breaker people!! The story isn't about the villain. It's about Civil War. And you're gonna get it.. I can't recommend this movie enough. Believe me guys, the 1 star reviews are all from Marvel haters. They just can't accept the fact that Civil War was a great move. Most of those reviewers probably haven't even watched the movie. Ignore the haters and watch the movie. You won't be disapppointed.
__label__9 The movie is directed by the Russo Brothers they have done a great adaptation of the comic book with powerful sequences of action, the movie is on pair of Winter Soldier.
__label__9 I don't know why this movie got such a bad wrap? I think it's actually pretty plain awesome!- and how they worked the BATTLESHIP game into the movie is pretty cool.The man who lost his legs gets the chance to fight again & be the hero, the 90 year old retired vets get a chance to save the day, the story between the main character and his girl is actually pretty cool- and when Liam neeson says NO when he asks for permission... priceless :) No, its not gonna win an Oscar & no its now the best, but I don't think anyone is going it it looking for that. If you just want a pretty cool & kick ass movie then you wont be disappointing.
__label__9 As a young boy, dinosaurs were the greatest thing on earth (well, the greatest thing that once WAS on earth) for me. I knew most of their names (like Gray in JW) and had my plastic dinosaurs fighting themselves, evil, and sometimes also good. You can imagine my excitement when I first saw Jurassic Park and I was truly blown away by the idea. I still somehow wish that I could actually experience the events in the movie, although I understand the critic that the author of the novel, Michael Crichton, wanted to express. Much of that critic is lost in the third sequel to the original movie, 22 years after its original release, at least it's hidden very deep in the plot. The scientists have created a new super- species, filled the missing pieces of DNA up with genes of amphibians that all have certain survival-powers, and it all goes terribly wrong, much because the dinosaurs are being underestimated as they always were. So is it a reboot of the first movie? At least a bit. They are referring to the first movie all the time, examples: A control guy wearing an Jurassic Park shirt proudly says he got an original shirt (shown in part 1 several times) for $150 from eBay, they run through degenerated original buildings and one time the kids even drive an original van that they repaired competently. New park-owner Masrani says that John Hammond told him on his death bed to "spare no expense", which was one of the funniest scenes in the movie, yet Masrani doesn't want to commercialize the park too much. That's where the movie starts being perfectly self-ironic: one control guy (the one with the classic shirt) jokingly suggests, in order to please the investors, to name newly bred species after companies, "so how about Pepsi-Saurus"? The movie indeed is full of product placements, I counted at least 9 brands and logos that are shown or mentioned during the film. So what is the purpose of the movie? Mainly, I guess, it's meant as a nostalgic, yet up-to-date experience/excuse for all those fans who were bitterly disappointed by the Parts II&III. It's exciting, contains a little love story, it's got wit, social criticism and excellently animated dinosaurs. It shows that 22 years after Jurassic Park, movie heroes are still being chauvinist and women are still stronger and braver as they are pictured in most (other) movies. And, finally, it fulfills every fans biggest desire: man and dinosaur, at last fighting side by side. That's probably why I'd give it an even better rating than the original Jurassic Park movie, although of course classic scenes like the shaking water glass will probably never be outperformed. Résumé: Director Colin Trevorrow manages to create an enthralling and visually stunning homage to the original which at some points brilliantly steps out of the shadow of its role model and finally puts the conciliatory end to the dinosaur universe that we, the fans, truly deserved.
__label__9 "He knows us. He's one of us. He comes from the same place as Bond, a place you say doesn't exist, the shadows." The world's greatest secret agent is back, but is the need for an agent outdated in today's modern world? After MI-6 is attacked and M (Dench) is brought under scrutiny by the government Bond (Craig) alone is left to find out who is behind the attack while M is trying to both help Bond and defend the need for an agency that has been compromised. I know that a review is really not needed here, being the 23rd Bond movie either you will watch it or not. I am a huge fan of the series and was really looking forward to this after hearing this is the best Bond movie yet. I have really loved the Craig movies but for some reason they never had the feel of a Bond movie to me, I wasn't sure what was missing but they didn't have the same feel. Knowing that they were re-booting the series I was lenient and with this one the re-boot is complete. This had much more of a feel of a classic Bond movie and by the end I was excited to see the next one. I got chills watching a few times and especially at the end. This had possibly the best opening and ending to a Bond movie ever. I could go on and on about this but I will just say if you love Bond you will love this, if you have never seen one then this one will make you a fan. Overall, From Russia With Love is my favorite Bond movie but this a very close second, and I think may be more re-watchable. I wanted to watch this one again as soon as the movie was over. I give this a very high A.
__label__9 Bond 23 and 007 has to literally come back from the dead when a stolen hard-drive makes M (Dench) look bad at a time when a face from her past comes homing into blood thirsty view.There is one sure fire fact in cinema that nobody can dispute, that of there never ever being a James Bond film that all Bondphiles will agree on. From each corner of the spectrum will come arguments that said Bond film is not gritty enough, not fun enough, not enough sex, not enough action, not enough fantastical stunts and etc etc etc. Well that's fine of course, we all have our peccadilloes we prefer in our Bond movies, but we do live in different times now, the world has changed, and so has Bond. You may not get the ultimate Bond you want, but this is a 21st Century Bond and a new era of 007 is upon us, something which makes Skyfall even the more bolder and braver because it marks the 50th anniversary by blending the old with the new and mostly achieving brilliant results.Skyfall allows us to bathe in nostalgia whilst also forcing us to re- evaluate just where we are at in terms of our beloved super secret agent. One of the great things about this Bond is that there is a bubbling under current of time's importance delicately perched on each side of James Bond's shoulders. Is he (and M etc) outdated? Or is the future still in need of such operatives/organisations? Director Mendes and his team don't take any of the easy options that were clearly available to them to answer the question, they instead build a film around Bond and M as characters, embrace the traditions of the series and hit us hard in head and heart.The plot of Skyfall as written is simple, absolutely nailed on it is straight and true to Hollywood conventions, but what fills out the simple plot is a series of Bondian delights, thrills spills and emotionally splintered kills. The stunning pre-credits sequence sees Bond traverse the rooftops of Istanbul on a motorcycle and then fight on top of a speeding train. Only to then find himself expendable. Which leads to Daniel Kleinman's title credits sequence that is filled with ominous portents of death and blood, in turn backed by the wonderfully Bondian of old title song warbled by Adele. It's clear at this point that this Bond movie is nodding to traditional values whilst promising to deliver some emotional pain. And so it proves.A washed up Bond enters the fray, and he convinces, he's dishevelled, unshaven and unfit, but he's still a tough bastard who can drink hard and stare a scorpion down. He'll be back soon, we know this, and he will be in wonderful physical shape, and loyal to his surrogate mother for sure. Ah, but there's the adversary on the scene now, a villain to finally give Craig's Bond something to fret about. It's Javier Bardem's (perfect) Silva, a cyber terrorist with a shock of blonde hair, a nasty dental trick and a devilish sexiness that unnerves during an interrogation scene; to which Bond cheekily opens up some wink wink possibilities. There is other sexual tension in the film as well, not just a steamy shower scene, but the ongoing banter with Naomie Harris' (excellent) Eve that positively fizzes with smirking innuendo.But ultimately this comes down to the love between a man and a woman, the kind that is so different to the type that has so often underpinned a Bond movie. Bond will kill or be killed for M, and how marvellous to see a director really able to give Judi Dench the direction she so deserves, and Bond, in Craig's magnetic and gritty hands, responds in kind to deliver a last half hour as good as any in the 50 years of Bond on film. As we know, all turf is Bond's turf, but this time it really is HIS turf, and as a little back story comes seeping out, Bond gets to exorcise some demons whilst kicking considerable ass. Get ready Bondphiles, this has the emotional wallop only seen in the best Bond movies of old.All the Bondian trappings are still here, exotic locales, gorgeous women, speeding vehicles, fights, stupendous stunts, bizarre lairs and balls out machismo. It's also funny! I myself commented when reviewing Quantum of Solace that it was pretty ace as an action film, but for many it's not Bondian enough, and the truth of the matter is Bond still needs to have a degree of fun, no matter how grim and gritty the story line is. Thankfully Skyfall is often a blast, with Craig (surely convincing even the most stubborn of dissenters how good a Bond he is) having the confidence and skill to lace his Bond's macho broody instinct with a desert dry wit and shrug of the shoulders nonchalance. Other side of the camera the tech credits are high, with Deakins proving to be one of the aces in the pack. His capturing of vistas, be it a neon city scape or a mountainous valley, are eye delights, his colour tones are beautiful, I promise you, nobody these days does golden browns like Deakins.It's not the masterpiece that I or gazillions of others hoped for, and it does have flaws (new Q a bit too geeky safe, finale lacks a substantial battle with the villain) and it remains simple in plot, but it's Bond's birthday and the birthday boy has been done proud by the makers. It's a new era Bond for sure, but that most definitely isn't a bad thing, it knows its past and it now knows its future, and without doubt we all still know the name. 9/10
__label__9 Since the site has 1164 reviews as of this writing I'll just throw in my own two cents.Two of the world's greatest actors, namely Judi Dench and Javier Bardem, lead the way here. Daniel Craig, I thought, turned in another strong performance as the droll fearless 007.There's also wonderful support from Ralph Fiennes, as the new Intelligence Chairman, Ben Whishaw as Q, Albert Finney as the caretaker Kincade, and Naomie Harris as Eve Moneypenny.I found the film to be filled with humor and the special effects terrific. The movie is also very capably directed by the accomplished British director Sam Mendes.Perhaps, my only criticism would be the grand finale which I felt was somewhat drawn out and could have shortened the 2 hour 23 minute duration.I was surprised at the very negative reviews on the first page of IMDb. I found, overall, this new Bond film to be a powerhouse and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
__label__9 For a film that happens to be the 23rd installment in a movie franchise, the latest James Bond thriller, Skyfall, is surprisingly original. Though it marks the series' 50th anniversary by paying homage to many of the previous movies, Daniel Craig's third outing as 007 is unlike any Bond movie we've seen before.The surprises start early. At the end of an opening action sequence that may be the most elaborate ever (it's actually three or four action sequences rolled into one), we are hit with an unexpected twist that puts Her Majesty's top secret agent out of action. While he's sidelined, a terrorist begins targeting MI6 and its covert agents. Bond must struggle to get back in the game so he can set out to uncover who's behind the plot.What follows is a movie that turns the Bond formula inside-out. While there is an element of globetrotting, and exotic locales are definitely featured, much of the movie actually takes place in the U.K. That's just one of the ways this Bond movie zigs where most others have zagged. And, without giving too much away, the movie's finale is set-up as an almost mirror image of all those we've seen before.This is also a film that takes place in the real world. Buildings still blow up (it is a Bond movie after all). But when they do, we quickly see Wolf Blitzer reporting the explosion on CNN as breaking news. In this version of the Bond Universe, when things go wrong, M is called to testify before a committee hearing.The more plausible setting fits with Craig's take on the classic character. In his first two Bond films, he presented the secret agent as a real flesh and blood human being. You can believe this guy really exists. This time out, he takes that characterization even further. Not only do we get to see him made weakened and addled by the physical rigors of his job, but we also dig deeper into his back-story than ever before. If Casino Royale began a reboot of the series, then Skyfall completes the Bond "origin story". In this movie, we learn more about who Bond is and how he came to be the man he is today, than we did in all the previous 50 years of 007 flicks.Of course, most Bond movies are only as good as their villain, and Javier Bardem's Silva may not be simply the best Bond villain ever, he may rank pretty high on the all-time movie bad guy list, too. Bardem simply outdoes himself as an evil mastermind bent not on world domination, but rather, revenge. With Academy Award winning director Sam Mendes as a guide, the scenes between Craig and Bardem are engrossing to watch. It gives us something else we haven't really seen before in a Bond movie: two great actors going head-to-head.There are also Bond girls, naturally. Naomi Harris livens things up as a spunky field agent. And the gorgeous Berenice Marlohe plays the obligatory woman-with-a-tragic-past. But the real female lead this time is Judi Dench's M. She is in many ways front and center in a story that deals with loyalty, principles and the moral ambiguities of national defense in the terrorist age. In a non-romantic way, she is also Bond's true love interest this time around.Skyfall looks back on the first 50 years of Bond, then shows him to us again in a new light and sets him up nicely for his next 50 years. As they always say in the closing credits, "James Bond Will Return".
__label__9 It's the Bond film we've all been waiting for. After the stunning reinvention of Casino Royale and the misstep that followed with Quantum of Solace, Skyfall feels like a true resurrection of the character and the Bond universe, and an incredible addition to the storied franchise. From its spectacular opening scene in Istanbul to its sensational climax in the Scottish Highlands, the film grabs hold of the audience and never lets go.With the great Sam Mendes at the helm, Skyfall is propelled by a veritable narrative purpose. Mendes values story and character over anything, and he gets Bond. His action sequences are thrilling, artfully directed, and a joy to watch. He directs with finesse and nuance the powerful character-driven scenes. He understands the soul and essence of Bond and respects the spirit of the franchise but also breaks new ground with the treatment of the story.Speaking of which, the script tells a moving, thematically resonant and intelligent story, and features superbly written scenes. It is more focused than Quantum of Solace, which felt oddly disjointed at times. Writers Neal Purvis, Robert Wade and John Logan elegantly balance humorous moments with truly dramatic ones while never straying from the emotional heart of the film. Best of all, they further develop Casino Royale's brilliant idea of delving into Bond's vulnerability and the result is a fascinating and flawed character. The human and moral stakes are high and much more personal this time around. The audience feels emotionally invested in the story. In the end, the film is a reflection on aging and on not only why the world needs Bond but also why he must and will endure.Visually, Skyfall is a true wonder. Roger Deakins' cinematography is aesthetically magnificent and serves the story well. Deakins shoots Istanbul, London, Macau, Shanghai and the Scottish Highlands in a tasteful, artistic and original manner. It is by far the most beautifully shot Bond I have ever seen. Thomas Newman's score is terrific and rich, cleverly using the classic Bond theme in new and interesting ways and incorporating Adele's already-classic theme to create a memorable piece of music.Finally, the cast all deliver fine performances. Daniel Craig gives a thoughtful, moving and nuanced performance, which constitutes his strongest interpretation of the character to date. Judi Dench offers a much more intimate and personal take on M. Ralph Fiennes, Albert Finney, Ben Whishaw, Naomie Harris and Berenice Marlohe are memorable. And what to say of Javier Bardem, who steals every scene he appears in? He is funny, unpredictable, frightening and most interestingly, tragic. A fantastic Bond villain.If you had any reservation about seeing this film after the lacklustre Quantum of Solace, fear no more. Skyfall redeems faults of the past and is one of the best films of the year. It hits all the right notes. Sam Mendes has infused Bond with a deft sense of fun, pathos and class.It's a great time at the movies.
__label__9 This is one of the best Bond movies I have ever seen. The story is superbly put together and has some interesting twists, the action is well done and contains none of the shaky cam which plagued the last film. The actors all do a great job. Some might still be put off by Daniel Craig's rough version of Bond, but I like it and he even has a few good old fashioned one-liners here. I wasn't sure about Javier Bardem as the villain at first. I thought he was a tad too flamboyant but eventually he grew on me, plus he had a very interesting backstory and as you might have guessed already, Judi Dench is fantastic as usual as M and she even has more to do in the story this time arround. This is not a completely formulaic Bond movie. Craig's bond is still more emotional than Connery or Moore ever were and for the first time we get some relatively detailed descriptions of his childhood. And something happens to Bond in the start of the movie that affects him for the rest of the film. But despite all that there are tons of James Bond trademarks like the martini, the introduction and even Q. Some might not like this new very young version of Q but I found him to be funny and very likable. They will never top Desmond Llewelyn's original performance, and instead of making a cheap Llewelyn clone, they make a completely different character which I think is the only right thing to do. This is not only a great Bond movie but just a downright great film.
__label__9 I have to say, this movie was not what I expected. I enjoyed it only once but it's impact remains. Kudos to the producers, you have taken the Bond series to another plain, much more intricate and enchanting. I recently watched Die Another Day with Pierce Brosnan and I couldn't help but notice movies back then (just 2002, not that far away) portrayed James Bond as an invincible character, that is in control in any situation, no matter how absurd (think of Icarus chasing him over virgin ice on the North Pole, conveniently stopping from killing him just so he can pull out a para planner and something that looks like a surf board). Now, Pierce Brosnan makes one amazing Bond, I have nothing bad to say about him! But I will admit I do LOVE the new approach with Daniel Craig - sophisticated, yet still human. You know, think of that scene with the chair in Casino Royale...Skyfall was different for me, because Bond chose to stay away... he would rather be in Turkey, middle of nowhere, than making a difference. NEVER does Bond abandon his Country, his Queen or MI5! We definitely have a different perspective of his character, he still is that amazingly charming, secretive and seductive Bond, but with an edge. It shows a vulnerable side of him, but even in his "weakest" moment he is still able to save the world.So far, no Bond girl has ever been .... removed from the movie in the middle of it. Naturally, I presumed to see Severine live and be saved by Bond, yet we see another twist in this movie, another motivation for Bond to make things right. I wish Bérénice Marlohe starred till the end, she makes one striking Bond girl.I did not expect not expect to see M die at the end of the movie.... I came to appreciate her strong, to-the-point righteous character, seeing her go almost brought tears to my eyes. Almost. I can still see her order that shot, knowing Eve is never going make it. There are so many forces at play, James is but a figure on her chess board. Best figure non-the-less! To me Daniel Craig is the GREATEST Bond ever. He is one amazing actor, I really enjoyed his permanence in Archangel. I hope he remains James Bond.
__label__9 Some people thought Daniel Craig was too much like Bourne and the Bond style film had been abandoned. If you were worried about that fear not - Bond is back.The film has great stunts & thrills - you'll see this in the long opening sequence. Bond is not burdened with gadgets and still has lots of energy.Ignore the plot credibility (not as far fetched as some plots like Moonraker) and usual level of general film fiction where it comes to computing.All the characters are great, from the MI6 team members to the villain (Silva) who acts like a traditional Bond villain. It is very easy to provide details and reveal the plot - the way the trailer was edited means it has not given too much away.This film will provide thrills & you will laugh more than you did with Craig's last two films.Classic Bond is back and it was a joy to see it, if you are a Bond enthusiast there are lots of treats in store.
__label__9 Normally sequels are hugely disappointing in comparison to the original film. So it's hard to believe that they could even come close to topping this movies original, alas they do! Picking up where the first movie starts off and introducing several new comic book regulars, we bypass the history establishing story of the original and head straight into what life is like for Peter Parker being a college student, Spiderman, and trying to hold down a job.This time Spidey must face the likes of Doc Ock, portrayed by Alfred Molina (he's come a long way since Indiana Jones cameos) excellently. Once again they couldn't have picked a better actor to portray the villain Spiderman has to face.Spiderman must take out Doc, save the city, save the girl, and still get good grades.The action sequences once again are entrancing and the story is well written. Kudos once again to the actors involved and Sam Raimi on creating another hit. Looking very much forward to Spiderman 3. Another hit I'm sure if 1 & 2 are any indications.
__label__9 WOW.I had low expectations after Spiderman 1. Spider Guy 2 is a blowout, take no prisoners, roller coaster ride of a film. It's got it all: great story line, edge of your seat action, romance, humor, fine acting, break neck pace,.well, you get the idea.This film is for the whole family. Great chase scenes, crashes, and special effects for the guys. Romance, and a tender love story for the gals. Comic book touches for the kids. It just works so well on every level.McGuire and Dunst have a chemistry that reminded me of Niles and Daphne in "Frasier." They loved each other from afar, and could not communicate their feelings to each other. The romantic tension was exquisite. So it is here with McGuire and Dunst. You know they have to get together at some point, but the long and difficult road is a journey we enjoy.The villain is definitely top shelf. Without revealing too much, suffice it to say that he's bad enough, scary enough, and convincing enough to make the film work on the plot level.The special effects are well done, especially where Spiderman has to save passengers on a speeding train.Spiderman has self doubts, begins to lose his powers, and longs to be Peter Parker instead of a superhero. He struggles with his choices in life, as we all do. He makes difficult choices, and learns that truth and integrity are rewarded, even when the results are very painful for the aunt who has replaced his mother.You might see films with a deeper message, but you won't see many films that combine action, romance, and meaning in one slick package. See this one. In fact, you may want to buy this one for your DVD library.
__label__9 Rated PG-13 for stylized action violence.Now I have not seen Spiderman 3 yet but I really want to.Spiderman is my favorite superhero.He is so cool and his movies are great as well.The first Spiderman film was pretty good but it could have been better.This film however is much better than the first and also one of the greatest superhero movies of all time.The action scenes are amazing because of the use of CGI and the storyline is great as well.The film is about Peter Parker, a nerd who has an alter ego as a superhero.He must fight Doc-Ock, a professor who turned evil after his mechanical arms took over while trying to save his relationship with Mary Jane, the woman he loves.Spiderman 2 is a great superhero movie and If you haven't seen it yet, you should.
__label__9 great actiondynamic villainwell pacedgreat story progression
__label__9 ... you just hit the jackpot", Mary Jane Watson ~ Dialogue straight out of the comic book ensuring that this sequel is going to be well worth the wait! OK, not quite as good as the first - sequels seldom are - but a valiant effort on the part of Sam Raimi.Here we have the next big Super Villain, Dr Otto Octavius/Doctor Octopus (Alfred Molina), who is about to further complicate Spider-Man's (Tobey Maguire) already failing personal life: Parker is experiencing financial difficulties and his studies are slipping. To top it all off, Mary Jane (Kirsten Dunst) is now engaged to astronaut John Jameson, son of Parker's overbearing newspaper editor, Jonah. Things just go from bad to worse for the web-slinger.Meanwhile, following the death of his father (the Green Goblin), Harry Osborn has now now taken over Oscorp Industries and is in business talks with Dr Otto Octavius. The Doctor, Parker's idol, has created a set of mechanical arms that are impervious to heat and magnetism; the experiment goes wrong and the arms become fused to the spine of Octavius, taking complete control of the doctor both mentally and physically.Aunt May is later captured and taken hostage by Dr Octopus. Spider-Man too falls prey to capture and is delivered to Harry, where his true identity is under threat. How much can one guy take? 'Spider-Man 2' is all about choices for Peter Parker: lose his alter-ego and concentrate on number one or continue with the responsibility he chose after the death of Uncle Ben ~ Raimi has skillfully recreated the classic scene - panel-for-panel - from Amazing Spider-Mam #50, Spider-Man No More, written by Stan Lee, pencilled by John Romita, and inked by Mickey Dimeo. Here Parker is seen leaving a rainy alleyway where his discarded costume hangs from the throat of a garbage can. Raimi has concentrated on the Parker who is forced to deal with actual everyday problems in Spider-Man 2, one we can all sympathize with. Parker's character outweighs that of other superheroes, for the simple fact that - at heart - he is just an ordinary guy trying to exist in a complicated world.Also stars: Bill Nunn, J K Simmons, Ted Raimi, Bruce Campbell with Cliff Robertson and Willem Dafoe.Matthew J Lee-Williams, Review.
__label__9 Iron Man 3 (2013) is A Marvel pure, fun, popcorn, Action Film and the third entry of the Iron Man trilogy. It is an awesome superhero Action flick a huge improvement over Iron Man 2 (2010) and million ways better than the new Marvel comic book film Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015)!!!!!!!! This film is very criticized and bashed from it is fans. I admit it the first time I watched this film, I hated it, with the Mandarian joke the twist and Guy Pearce been the bad guy and so on. But now after I watch it I was highly impressed and Entertained, this film wasn't boring it had less humor in it and was the most serious with action scenes. Shure there is less Iron Man and more Tony in it, but doesn't ruined my loving for Iron man trilogy! The most what I love of this film is. There wasn't any Avengers in it trough the whole film. Only Mark Ruffalo as Bruce Banner/Hulk made a cameo scene on the end of the credits but that was it and it did not bother me or annoyed. The story centers around Tony Stark not Avengers, that is why I just love this movie! Thank god Jon Favreau step down as the Director and Shane Black replaced him! I was surprised by the fact that Disney allowed Shane Black making an Action film flick in Lethal Weapon and Die Hard With a Vengeance style! Yes Action style! I am defending this film against haters. I know a lot of people who will see my review will put it down, just like 30 people put down my review Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015)! First off this film isn't Die Hard With A Vengeance or Lethal Weapon film even tough Tony and Rhodes are fighting with guns without their armors. I love the film because it is serious it has Action. Gwyneth Paltrow did a wonderful performance as Pepper un like she did in Iron Man 2. And yes fans I am saying it. She was so damn annoying in Iron Man 2, I disliked watching her in that movie, in this film she is a supporting and caring girlfriend unlike Iron Man 2.I love this film because The film sets place after the events of The Avengers on Christmas Eve!!! Tony Stark (the always wonderfully charismatic Robert Downey Jr.) is falling apart. This is the first time I see Tony Stark and Iron Man in a snow in Christmas, This film reminds me on Batman Returns (1992) Tim Burton's film. It is pretty good. The attack on Tony's house whit helicopters blowing Tony's house to pieces was the first time in the film I ever saw. Gwyneth put Iron Man Armor on in and she saved Maya Hansen that was outstanding. The scene was pure action! There was kid in this film and no he wasn't annoying, he did a good job helping Tony Stark against his post traumatic stress disorder attacks. Not annoying kid and I think he did a good job. Tony Stark was brilliant fixing and building a new armored suits. Iron Man saved 13. passengers from falling off the airplane Air Force One, tough he crashed in the truck, I loved that scene. Aldrich Killian participated in the development of Extremis thereby amassing a group of Extremis-enhanced soldiers under his command. Killian played by an awesome Guy Pierce did a wonderful job portraying a villain to Tony Stark. I really think Guy Pierce just did an amazing job portraying a villain in Iron Man 3 he was some A.I.M. soldier creating a terrorist attacks and he was brilliant to make an alias Mandarin! To mask his illegal activities as terrorist attacks he created the idealized terrorist persona known as the "Mandarin"! that was brilliant and I love the twist!Tony Stark, is proved in this third and more than likely final chapter in the solo run of Iron Man. Iron Man 3 or Three as it appears in the end credits amps up the action and closes out the trilogy on a high note setting Tony's eventual return in summer 2015's Avengers: Age of Ultron. But in his most darkest moments he is challenged by his emotions of what happened to him in New York, while dealing with the biggest threat he has encountered: Mandarin. Without given any plot points away for those who may have not seen this, but Iron Man 3 is well worth the admission and then some. People Iron Man 3 sets up Marvel's Phase 2 of features. This is the best Iron Man movie yet, better than Iron Man 2 and Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015) Loved the storyline and Tony was a genius and brilliant again as usual. Great special effects. A very busy, action- and humour-packed comic-book flick. Better than Iron Man 2, but not nearly as good as the original. As usual, Ben Kingsley (as Trevor Slattery) rocked, as did even-sexier-when-angry Gwyneth Paltrow. :-D The acting. Robert Downey is as good as ever, Paltrow, Pearce, Cheadle & Co follow not far behind. The best is Ben Kingsley, though, although his character is ... no, I just want to mention the Good here.Iron Man 3 (stylized on screen as Iron Man Three) is a 2013 superhero film featuring the Marvel Comics character Iron Man, produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures.When Tony Stark's world is torn apart by a formidable terrorist called the Mandarin, he starts an odyssey of rebuilding and retribution.The rating I am giving to this movie is 9/10
__label__9 With comic book movies, there is a repeating cycle. The first one has our attention. The sequel, most of the time (in the case of Spider-man 2, The Dark Knight, X2, etc.), outdoes the original. But then we are eventually faced with the third part. In some cases (The Dark Knight Rises), the third part kicks ass. In most cases (Spider-man 3, X-Men: The Last Stand), they are the weakest. Luckily, this is simply not the case for Iron Man 3.The film takes place after the events of The Avengers, and Tony Stark (the always wonderfully charismatic Robert Downey Jr.) is falling apart. He's losing sleep, he's having anxiety attacks, and he is slowly becoming distant from his faithful girlfriend Pepper (wonderfully played by Gwenyth Paltrow again). But it only gets worse when a terrorist named The Mandarin (Ben Kingsley, putting on a chilling accent) starts wreaking havoc across the globe.Guy Pearce shows up as a scientist named Aldrich Killian (what a villain name), and if you know anything about Guy Pearce, you can assume Aldrich isn't very nice. Rebecca Hall, who is very underrated might I add, shows up as Maya, a scientist girl that Tony met in the 90s. And Don Cheadle reprises his Iron Man 2 role as Jim Rhoades, Tony's best friend. There are a lot of plot details that I will leave out because I want you to see Iron Man 3 with an empty mind, otherwise it can't be enjoyed.I was feeling a lot of things throughout Iron Man 3. I was really into it in the first half hour. Then, these weird fire people showed up, and I thought, "Oh God, are we watching Thor?" (I actually love Thor, but I found the blend of fantasy at first off). But as the film went on it all made sense and I accepted it. Then, I was also feeling de ja vu, because I felt like Killian and Mandarin were fairly similar to Justin Hammer and Ivan from the previous. But that is one of the wonderful things about Iron Man 3: It's unpredictable.Iron Man 3 is damn good. The heart and soul of this trilogy is Downey Jr., and here is is at his best doing what he does best. Iron Man is my favorite of The Avengers, and really, could you blame me? Downey's amazing. What helps this time is the fact that this one is directed and co-written by Shane Black (Lethal Weapon, The Long Kiss Goodnight, Kiss Kiss Bang Bang). Black has a gift with blending action with humor, and this is easily the funniest of the trilogy. It is also the best acted.I had a total blast here. Is it as good as something like The Dark Knight trilogy? Well, if you know my stance on that trilogy, then that answer is obvious. Is it as good as the first two? Yes, and maybe even better. The film has a great energy, a great sense of humor, some terrific surprises and some terrific action sequences that will leave the inner nerd within jumping for joy.I find it difficult to give comic book movies a 10/10, mainly because I have such a high standard when it comes to them. Yes, perfect comic book movies exist. Is Iron Man 3 perfect? Not quite, because it doesn't exactly have the themes that the perfect comic book movies acquire. In other words, I wasn't moved by it. But that's okay, because the Iron Man trilogy isn't meant to be taken as seriously as some others, and so they shouldn't. But no comic book movie in a long time has danced this close to perfection in a long time. This could be the end of Iron Man. I hope it isn't, but at least he goes out in style.A-
__label__9 Tony Stark(Robert Downey JR) is having problems sleeping after the events of The Avenger(2012). He throws himself in his work, putting strain on his relationship with Pepper Potts(Gwyenth Paltrow), then a new threat named The Manderin(Sir Ben Kingsley) a terrorist who is bent on domination.Okay there is a lot to this movie then what you saw in the trailer, you probably will be surprised or be very mad, that is up to you. But I enjoyed this, Robert Downey JR is still pretty good has the charming but flawed hero Tony Stark/Iron Man. So was Gwyenth Paltrow and Don Cheadle. Sir Ben Kingsley, Guy Pearce, and Rebecca Hall also shine in there roles. It also had great effects and great action. In this we learn it's not the suit that makes Tony a hero, but it's Tony himself that is a hero.
__label__9 The first Monsters Inc. came out when i was just 7 years old and immediately became one of my all time favourites from the day I saw it. With extremely high expectations in mind and excitement especially for Pixar's close attention to relevance (as I am actually at university now myself) I went to see the new one as soon as it came out.The film is a prequel following closely to our much loved earlier Characters, Mike and later Sully as they present to us their lives prior to the first movie. As well as an adorable new cast of monsters which are equally lovable as the old ones.To my delight, the film exceeded most if not all my earlier expectations. The plot is well written, funny and most of all extremely heart warming especially to long time fans like myself as well as those younger viewers that might not have even seen the first one.The nostalgic element of the film is perhaps the most well written. Every twist and turn reveals a huge or tiny explanation to the events and habits of the characters that I previously saw in the first film. Questions I never even asked myself, like why Randall's eyes are so squinty or how Sully and Randall's rivalry originated. Although i absolutely loved the movie, perhaps its because I've waited for 12 years but at some points it left me slightly unsatisfied and I'd have loved for some parts to be explained more thoroughly. Regardless of my only criticism, the movie made me laugh, cried with tears of joy, almost actually cried and was both heart warming and action packed. What more could you ask for? I urge those fans of the first film as well as anyone that just wants to have a good time at the cinema to see it. It'll be well worth your time!
__label__9 When I first heard about this and saw trailers, I felt like it would be OK, a good laugh but not enough to really challenge other Pixar films. I can safely say that I was wrong on that score, for it manages to not only be successful prequel to the original film but also a great film in its own right. Billy Crystal and John Goodman slip effortlessly back into their roles as Mike Wazowski and Sully despite playing younger versions of themselves. The other main highlight of the voice cast is Helen Mirren's intimidating Dean Hardscrabble, who is a menacing presence and I'm sure the design of her character was modelled on Maleficent from Sleeping Beauty. Steve Buscemi's Randall also returns and although I felt that he would have a stronger part in the movie, the seeds are sown for his villainous ways in the original.What astounded me was the creativity throughout the film, the effort that had gone into the university environment and the monsters that inhabited it (there's one monster who has university down pat in a hilarious moment that all students will understand!). The new characters that become Mike and Sully's friends, the Oozma Kappa gang, are all adorable and memorable, providing a lot of the film's humour as well as one of its most touching moments towards the end. The film is consistently hilarious but also remembers that it has to develop the initial rivalry then friendship of Mike and Sulley. The world set up in the original is also included more than I thought it would (a couple of trips to Monsters Inc. itself) and there are some brilliant cameos from two memorable characters from Inc.Although the friend I was watching it with said that the film was low stakes, as you knew how it would end, I found that the film still managed to feel fresh despite dealing with underdog clichés and the problem of being a prequel. In a Q and A after the preview screening, the director and producer said that this was about when your dreams don't come true: a strangely anti-Disney philosophy in many ways but one that is honest and teaches kids reality about the world of work, none more so than a delightful montage of pictures explaining how Mike and Sully ended up in their respective positions in Inc. I haven't seen Cars 2 (not sure I want to) and although I enjoyed Brave, it is definitely lesser Pixar fare whereas Monsters University sees them back at the top, creating a touching and hilarious story that will hopefully see them get back to dishing out the quality every time.I am a bit confused as to some of the critical reviews, and why this film currently has 75% on Rotten Tomatoes is beyond me. I sincerely hope this will go up, because it should be nearer 90. I watched Finding Nemo in 3D in April and although Nemo isn't my favourite Pixar, MU is easily as good as that. One critic argues that this film is too similar to The Internship...well that's the Internship's problem, as this film will have been longer in the making undoubtedly and judging from IMDb score doesn't seem to have anywhere near the same creativity and imagination behind it. This may not scale the heights of the Toy Story trilogy but it most certainly is not forgettable and the fact that I nearly shed a tear at one point (and it was NOT for the main two characters funnily enough) proves that the film gives more than just 'how did Sulley and Mike become friends'. If everyone keeps expecting Pixar to produce a Toy Story every time and if they leave a film having not experienced that and express their disappointment/outrage as a result, that's unfair. My favourite Pixars are Toy Story 1-3, Monsters Inc and Wall-E (10/10), then Incredibles, Up, Finding Nemo, Bug's Life (9/10) and I would place Monsters University just after A Bug's Life but in many ways it's probably better.9/10 (RT had better follow suit)
__label__9 First and foremost, this movie should be almost painfully relatable to the Disney Renaissance Generation. For the convenience of the meanings told in Disney and Pixar films, couldn't be more relatable to the age of those born in the mid 90's growing up. Also, for the question of a Monsters Inc. Prequel being necessary? Make that decision after the credits roll, for this was the most enjoyable movie I've seen so far in 2013. In an overwhelming blockbuster summer of over-hyped excitement followed by mild to severe disappointment, Monsters University isn't just a good sign for Pixar, it's a good sign that 2013 can be one of the best years of film. Now! On to the review! The story of the origin of the friendship between one-eyed Mike Wazowski and the blue furred James P. Sullivan in their freshman year at Monsters University. This film has homages to all the classic college comedy movies, and as it doesn't hold out on laughs for the kids and adults, it has a great amount of heart. Questions of what the future holds, and if our dreams are as possible as we hope they are. Punches aren't pulled on these questions, which is why it isn't just some animated movie to take the kids to see. References to real college life are blended with superb imagination of the monster world. Rather it be a long blonde haired guitar player, or the horns on the school bus. All original voice talent returns and keeps up with the track record of great performances in Pixar films. Billy Crystal, John Goodman, and Steve Buscemi grasp their characters and give them entirely different motivations compared to the original. Instead of a hardworking team, the two have a rivalry, and the supporting cast of their fraternity supply more relatability with a great variety of lovable monsters who help fill the story with even more heart. The compatibility with Mike and Sully can be a bit surprising, for one is the study hard teachers pet, and the other a natural born scare student. And just as you think your more like one, the other comes in and you realize that even monsters can be scared of the real world just like us today. Fear of what life has in store, and if we have the talent to fulfill our dreams. This is a theme a lot of critics are missing, and shines making it worthy of being a great Pixar movie and prequel to a great classic. The story isn't terribly generic as one may think, and every act is more different from the last. Starting with the clash between Mike and Sully, then onto the scare games, an intense series of games that declare supremacy of M.U. For the third and final act couldn't be more surprising though. It not only serves as a great climax, but something that we can once again commend Pixar for telling great stories in out of the box thinking that we should think paying for the $10 dollar ticket is worth it. And boy did I think this movie was worth it, for I will be definitely be seeing it a second and possibly third time. It wasn't a prequel we originally wanted, but it was a film that we and Pixar needed. And boy am I glad it happened.
__label__9 MONSTERS UNIVERSITY is a prequel to MONSTERS INC., directed by Dan Scanlon. The characters include the voices of Billy Crystal, John Goodman, Hellen Mirren.The film goes back to where Mike Wazowski and James P. Sullivan were before they were buddies and in Monsters Inc. It shows how the two of them were in university, showing the relationship between them which led up to the two of them becoming the best of friends.Alright, so MIKE AND SULLY ARE BAACKK!!! Well, thats what every kid or adult that was associated with the enjoyment of Monsters Inc should say. Okay, so it's been 12 years since we saw these two on-screen, providing us with animated humor, and now they're back again, to show us how they were in University. The teaser trailer was extremely funny as it showed a prank played on Mike by Sully, and it gave a short look-in into the sort of relationship we would be seeing. Soon enough, the trailer came out and boy did it get people hooked. Finally, I was able to catch a premiere screening of the film, to my advantage, and IT WAS GREAT.So let's start talking about the film, not necessarily the trailers. Who are we kidding, at first when we heard that Monsters University was coming, that a sequel was coming to the classic Monsters Inc, we gave up hope, saying that no one could make it better than the first one. But Dan Scanlon challenged that, and the first teaser proved it. And I think that the movie does it as well- kinda. So, Monsters University isn't AS good as Monsters Inc, but it does come second in line. It includes Mike and Sully in an underdog team, but throughout the film, you can't help and laugh out at the jokes, and smile at the fact that the sequel is finally out.Monsters University is GREAT. It has two parts and its all happy and fun. I, honestly, liked the way they showed the chemistry developing between Mike and Sully. You can actually feel it, and even though its animation, it feels real. This one isn't quite sad, like how Inc was. Inc ended in a sad tune, at the fact that Boo was gone, but this one ends at the beginning of Inc. I loved the way it ended. The line that Mike uses just makes you go like, 'YEAH! Thats what I'm talking about!' Honestly, I'm not gonna say any more, because I don't wanna spoil anything for anyone.In the end, Monsters University is great fun. Pixar has done it again, the director has managed to do it. I don't think that there is gonna be another part to the franchise, which kinda dulls me, but at the end of Monsters University it makes you wanna see more, which you will only get by watching Inc, since its the continuation. Go watch Monsters University, with anyone to be honest. I guarantee you an extremely fun ride that these two will give you.MONSTERS UNIVERSITY- 9.5/10
__label__9 I marked this comment as containing spoilers as a precaution. I reveal here no crucial plot elements or details, but if you want to know absolutely zero about the film then heed the warning.I was seeing a lot of bad reviews for this movie on other sites that I thought were really not justified so I decided to write one myself. Thing is, a lot of these movie sites or whatnot have a certain number of reviewers and they just send any of them to write a review of a movie, without proper consideration of what reviewer they are sending. Let's face it, different people like different things. It's no use sending a reviewer to critique a movie when they notice all the wrong things. But the movie: The bottom line is, this movie is fantastic. I am a fan of Bay's earlier work and don't like much of his later stuff. But with the Transformers series he has me hooked. His directing fits the feel of the Transformers perfectly. I guess hats off go to Spielberg for knowing whom to choose to direct these movies. The one gripe I have about the film, and I'll get it out of the way first, is the earlier comedy sections. The film keeps its humor present throughout, which is great, but the earlier college section is a bit heavy with it, particularly Sam's mom being overplayed. I like her and she is hilarious often, but at those scenes it's just too over the top and could have been dropped altogether. Having said that, it doesn't detract from the rest of the film and does make the bond between Sam and his parents stronger, fleshing them out as characters which is very important.Many people's concern is that there are too many human stories in the films, and the transformers come second. That is true, but also necessary, and the film is better for it. Watching these huge robots fighting to protect the humans is what makes them so lovable. The story would not be as good without people. The robots are there as guardians, their presence is majestic. If the entire movie would be only with them it would take a huge chunk away from their charm. In short, the movies work best this way, and it's a good thing that Bay knows this.The human characters are fewer this time around, which is good because it is a tighter story. The provide a lot of comic relief but also some very touchy moments between Sam and Optimus. The film's plot is very much about the unison of humans and Autobots, as well as Sam's growing up and taking responsibility. There is some toilet humor, as in the first one. It may bother some but it's never too abundant or in really bad taste. It's a simple movie, and it's humor is likewise. It's funny more often than not, and when it isn't it doesn't bother either, just raises a grin.And now to the good stuff, the action. Well, when I left the cinema I was absolutely speechless. I couldn't utter a word, but I knew that I had to see it again real soon. The action is just spectacular. The animation on the robots is beyond superb. Bay's signature camera-work is still present but it's never in a way which you can't follow what's going on - it just adds to the sense of realism, seeing gigantic creatures going at it in front of your eyes. One scene which is perhaps too hectic is in the beginning, but it is short and serves as an intro, so it's really more about that hectic feeling than anything. The story itself, as I've mentioned, is tighter this time and that's a good thing. We see very clearly what's going on on each side of the conflict, with the robots getting a lot of solo screen time. It also relies more heavily on Transformer lore, which should please some fans. I know I was pleased by it. The story wraps up nicely. It does leave an opening for a sequel, but on the same level as Strarscream's short flying away scene in the first film. It's just to let us know the war isn't over. But the story for this film gets it's ending, so we're not left with a cliffhanger. To conclude, I'll just say this film exceeded my expectations. It was a feel-good film, with good acting and characters, good story, and unbelievable action. It's a thrill from start to finish.It's not Oscar material, but it was never made to be. You can't judge anything based on criteria it doesn't attempt to achieve. Overall, within its own genre, it's an excellent film.
__label__9 I went into this film prepared to be disappointed. Tim Burton's Alice in Wonderland felt a bit lifeless to me (except for Johnny Depp's Hatter) and I couldn't help but compare this movie to that one in my head. So, I went and saw this one with reservations.I'm a huge Oz fan. I love the original books. I love the movie. I love Wicked (book and musical), Tin Man, Return to Oz, The Wiz (the musical more than the movie), and even Geoff Ryman's oh-so-depressing novel Was. There's no such thing as an "official" version of the story anymore, so I don't mind a little pastiche here and there. After all, Baum's Witch was short, wore an eye patch and a very tall hat, and brandished an umbrella, but Margaret Hamilton effectively erased that version in favor of the glorious green-skinned villain we all know and love. So talk of "the real version of the story" is pretty much moot at this point.This movie didn't disappoint me at all. Yes, it had some issues, but I didn't really mind overall. I left the theater with a big goofy grin and I'll probably go see it again. It was an enjoyable romp through a gorgeous landscape with enough insider references to merit multiple viewings. It rarely takes itself too seriously, and never tries to step on the toes of any other version of the story. There are references to events in the books which, before now, have never made it into any other adaptations (such as the China Girl), as well as many familiar visual cues from the 1939 film (the guard's outfits, the spiral where one fork of the Yellow Brick Road begins, and even a shot of the Kansas horizon with a scraggly grasping tree seem comfortably familiar). There was even a visual cue that, while it may not have been taken from this source, certainly suggested a character from Tin Man. I felt that Mila Kunis came across as a bit flat. Her character arc seems too forced and we don't really get to see much progression. I didn't mind James Franco, to be completely honest. He was appropriately sleazy when he needed to be and charming in a goofy way when needed. I think he could have invested his character with a bit more depth, but it never really turned me off his character at all. Superficiality is a huge part of his character, and I thought it worked, overall. The side characters were a delight, with some of the best comedic lines coming from Oz's traveling companions. And, of course, Rachel Weisz steals the show with a delicious performance, embodying a great number of classic villains from Snow White's Evil Queen to Star Wars' Emperor Palpatine.Visually, the film is a delight. Sam Raimi turns Oz into its own wonderland without it ever seeming predictable or tired. One criticism I had with Burton's Alice was that it didn't really give the audience a chance to luxuriate in the bizarre landscapes of Underland all that much. It had great character design, but the landscape seemed a bit low- key. Raimi, on the other hand, gives audiences exactly what they're looking for. Gems, flowers, waterfalls, mountains, rock formations, sunsets, etc. that are completely breathtaking. Not only that, but the CGI is crisp and clean.Danny Elfman's score was...OK. One thing I've noticed with him lately is that almost everything he does now sounds less and less unique. We've got the requisite haunting waltz and the spectacular pounding swirling opening credits theme, but other than that, I found almost everything to be a bit forgettable, which is sad because Elfman is one of my favorite film composers. The music isn't bad, but it just doesn't add as much as it could have. But overall, I really enjoyed this movie. It's a delightful romp through a colorful wilderness that asks nothing more from its audience than a chance to have fun. This isn't a thoughtful, complex Oscar-winner nor is it a gritty realistic fantasy a la Lord of the Rings or Game of Thrones. It's a kaleidoscopic portrait that seems at once familiar and new. Children will love it (though very young children may be scared by a few of the antagonistic creatures) adults will enjoy picking out all the loving homages to the books and the 1939 film. It's a fun way to spend an evening, and you won't be disappointed, just don't go in expecting deep, complex high fantasy. If you liked Burton's Alice, you will definitely enjoy this film (and you'll probably enjoy it more, if I may so myself).
__label__9 Unbalance prequel to the classic "The Wizard of Oz" has a lot to offer thanks to the directorial grace of Sam Raimi and the game performances of both Rachel Weisz and Michelle Williams. Unfortunately, their efforts are almost torpedoed thanks to a bland script that needed a lot more heart and the shocking miscasting of two of its major roles.First we should start with the look of the film, which is to my surprised tame considering the gluttony of CGI in today's films. Sam Raimi gives an old school feel to this film that manages to balance the right tone of epic nostalgia and childlike intimacy with a hint of Raimi's signature manic style of energy. It is a beautiful film to look at and it is very inviting. The character's looks all represent their personalities and the CGI animated effects for the imaginary characters match the feel and look of the film. From the childlike wonder of China Doll to the scary fanged flying baboon, Raimi manages to let them connect on a visual level with their environment and not for once that they over power the seamless look of the film. It is a beautiful, visual affair and that is all thanks to the grace that Sam Raimi and his ability to let the audiences feel their way around this beautiful world. Unfortunately, while this movie is beautiful to look at, not even Raimi's efforts are enough to cover over the fact that the movie's script is as bland as a stale cracker and some of the performances are just flat out bad. The story lacks punch and its barley passable as a narrative. The character's motives are flimsy at best and a hint of irony and complexity could have added a lot more to the film. It is only through the efforts of the movie's best actors (Rachel Weisz and Michele Williams) that give this film the fun, irony and complexity that the script does not manage to even give itself. Unfortunately, while Weisz and Williams are bring more than humanly possible to their perspective roles, both James Franco and Mila Kunis look like they rather not be there are all. The bad part is that both Franco and Kunis are so miscast that it makes you question the mentality of the casting agent who though that they were good choices for their roles.This leads me to the acting of this film, which is disjointed to say the least. James Franco has done good work in past films but here he just looks like he just does not care about his fellow actors or his performance. He looks like someone who just wants to cash a check and just cost by on what little he can do. He lacks charisma, charm and presence in the role of Oscar Diggs and the bad part is that he is the movie's lead character. Franco's attitude is well displayed on screen and it hurts the film and you end up wondering on why he was even cast in the first place. The same goes to Mila Kunis, who tries a bit harder than Franco on her performance but ends up almost as bad. She just does not have it in her to pull off the role of Theodora, who becomes the Wicked Witch of the West and her performance on screen shows that she is well aware of that. Therefore, she just gives up half way and leaves both Weisz and Williams to fend for themselves. This is not a bad thing when you think about it because both of them manage to hold the film above water while the script just falls flat, Franco continues to not care about anyone but himself and Kunis just does not bother.This leads me to the best parts of the movie, which are the performances of Rachel Weisz and Michelle Williams, who both should get overtime pay for keeping the film from self-destructing. Both actresses are probably the best we have working today and in this film, it shows. Weisz plays the oldest sister Evanora, who is the villain of the film and let me tell you, she is so much fun that its criminal and her performance is the best of the film. She gives the character of Evanora such a sassy, fun presence that you do not need Kunis to transform into the Wicked Witch of the west to get a charge, because Weisz does more with less and gets the job done. Her performance keeps the movie afloat and the viewer is more than happy to follow her, which is strange because she is the villain of the film and has more charisma and charm that the hero himself. The second best is Michelle Williams who plays Gilda, the good witch and manages to keep her character from going way too far with the sweetness and have a bit of an edge as well. Williams brings humanity to her performance and the film and gives a perfect foil to Weisz's evil Evanora. If Disney had any sense, a sequel or prequel to this film would have just both Weisz and Williams and leave out Franco and Kunis but I seriously doubt it.You should follow this yellow brick road just to see Sam Raimi give his all to this beautiful world and see on how good actors Rachel Weisz and Michelle Williams are in their roles but this road has potholes (Which are the script and the performances of James Franco and Mila Kunis) that cannot be avoided. Let's just hope you have good wheels to go around them to get to the good this film has to offer.
__label__9 Strong movie, strong plot, excellent action, Andrew Garfield is an amazing Peter Parker and a more amazing Spider-man with his jokes. Still, the villains' development is too much fast, with no persuasive reasons to take down the Spidey. Furthermore, my favorite scene it's the one Peter fights Green Goblin on the tower, then try to saves Gwen by throwing the web, which in slow motion and forming a hand's shape was completely amazing. Her death was sad, but epic, very well developed and adequate. Also, the Rhino appearance in the end wasn't so amazing, leaving curiosity for the next movie, and this is a fact that I don't like: the understanding that will have a next movie, even we knowing that will have.
__label__9 I was a pretty big fan of Raimi's original series when they were released, and the first two films still hold high among my favorite superhero movies. When the reboot was announced I was naturally skeptical; despite Spider-Man 3 and its flaws, I had confidence that Raimi could right the ship. Deep into production I began seeing trailers and clips from ASM, and it gave me some hope. After seeing the film in its entirety, I became a big fan. The story was similar to most origin takes on Spider-Man, but with some small changes to try and separate itself from the original film trilogy. Admittedly, a few of those decisions might've been less than stellar, but Raimi's version nailed the origin and that was hard to top for the new film. With the tale of how the hero came to be out of the way, the sequel could really decide where this series was going to go. It seems to be an exciting direction.I was skeptical when the cast was announced and we met our new Spider-Man, which is a feeling I no longer have. Don't get me wrong, I thought Tobey Maguire played a great Peter Parker. For my money, he was a solid Spider-Man as well. But Garfield feels truly at home in the role. It isn't to say one performance is more accurate to the comic Spidey than the other; with as many different takes on the character as we have seen in comic book lore, both performances reflect different qualities in different versions of the character. However, Garfield's Spider-Man feels like the version of the character I grew up with. He's humble and soft-spoken at the right times and confident in others. I thought his performance in this film was one of the more defining performances of any Marvel film character alongside Downey Jr.'s Tony Stark.Spidey's love interest, Gwen Stacy, is portrayed perfectly in not only this film, but in the first as well. I've been a fan of Emma Stone since she hit with Superbad, and she really gives Gwen some life. Her dynamic with Garfield is surprisingly one of the strongest portions of the film. They have such great chemistry that it's impossible not to feel like you're in the moment with them, and Marc Webb knows it. Dane DeHaan shines as well, giving Harry a unique sense of frustration and abandonment. He's dark and brooding, but also sly and cunning when necessary. Jamie Foxx holds well in the film as well. Admittedly the Electro/Max Dillon character is goofy and strange, but I like his motivation. In a world of so many it's easy to feel neglected, and it's clear he has a lot of problems that motivate his transition from bumbling Max to the powerful Electro. As far as the plot is concerned, there is a lot going on. However, I felt this film did a markedly improved job on balancing the numerous subplots. I never felt as if the characters were fighting for screen time or that any of the plot points were necessarily rushed. Between Peter's parents and his love life and the growing problems arising from Oscorp, it would seem like there's too much happening. But Webb never lets the story lines stray too far before reeling them back in; each plot point directly connects to the finale and ultimate message of the film: Hope. Peter often tells others Spider-Man gives those around him hope, but the ultimate test of the film is how well Peter Parker can maintain that hope himself. Indeed being a hero has a cost, which results in one of the most powerful comic book moments in history coming to fruition on the big screen. Gwen's death is the turning point for our titular character, and one that will certainly drive his actions in future installments. Ultimately, ASM2 is an ambitious film that does attempt to do a lot in just one film. However, Marc Webb keeps the story moving with enough confidence to tie the plot points together in one swift finale that will change Spider-Man forever. Amazing Spider-Man 2 ****1/2
__label__9 Initial Review: The Amazing Spider Man 2 is definitely one of the best movies of the year! I also believe that it is the best Spider Man film to date. Marc Webb masterfully fuses action, romance and comedy into a film that is fun and moving for everyone.The Positives: I liked the first "Amazing" that was released, but there were some problems I had with it. I think this film took these challenges head on. I felt like there wasn't much fighting in the first movie, but this was vastly improved. The romance was top-notch much like the first film, and the special effects went above my expectations. *(Spoiler)* I may be hated for this, but I thought it was a good move to kill off Gwen Stacy this go around for two reasons: it needed to follow the comics and it set a much darker tone for the rest of the franchise (which will be needed for future films like "Venom Carnage" and "The Sinister Six." Towards the middle of the movie I was really getting the vibe that this was mostly a kid-directed movie, but the death of Gwen brought it back to the tragic feeling of Spider Man that was so popular in the comics (God I'm going to miss her). I really enjoyed the villains which added to the fun of the movie.The Negatives: Now this film wasn't all roses but it was exceptional. One problem I had was the little screen time provided for the Green Goblin (after transformation) and the Rhino. Critics often referred to the film as having three villains, but it really felt like one with two side battles to tease the next film. The character who dons the rhino suit has all but 12 minutes and the Green Goblin (once again, after transformation has like six minutes of screen time (approximately). However, I do agree with the critics that the back story for Harry Osborn felt awkward, and there was one two many story lines running through this movie.Conclusion: I gave this movie 9 out of 10, due to the facts that it has so many positive aspects and with minimal negative issues (that are really more of a nuisance than anything else. I highly recommend this film for everyone.
__label__9 I really don't understand the hatred this movie gets. Let me start out by saying that I'm not really a Spiderman fan. My experience of Spidey came from the awesome PS1 Spiderman games, the 1994 Spiderman animated series and the Raimi movies. With that being said, Rise of Electro is one of the best superhero movies I've ever seen. I'd put it up there with Winter Soldier, the First Avenger, Blade and even the Raimi Spider-Man films.Andrew Garfield does a pretty good performance as Spidey, balancing emotion with excellent comedic timing. Emma Stone is wonderful as Gwen Stacy. Jamie Foxx is an excellent and quite sympathetic villain, even if he is pushed to the sidelines a little by Harry Osborn. The movie actually makes you care for all the characters, even Harry Osborn. And I'd be lying if I said Gwen's death didn't knock me on my ass, because of how shockingly gruesome it is for a PG-13 movie and because I would've thought they'd let her live.I really liked what they did with the source material, updating concepts like The Rhino and Electro without taking out too much. Plus, I genuinely feel that this movie pulls off the 'hero rises from the ashes' storyline much better than Dark Knight Rises.Is it perfect? No. But is it a good superhero movie? Hell yeah, it is.
__label__9 Being not a fan of the spiderman movies - for me aimed at at kids and teenagers of which i am not - I found this movie to be a bit of an unexpected treat.Viewed it last night at a 3d preview in edinburgh and what i worried might be a bum numbing 2 and a half hours actually flew by.Don't want to give any spoilers or ruin any story but the whole pace of this film is much tighter than previous efforts and the tone can be quite dark at times. There is of course love interest but this added to the story and I actually bought into it and found myself caring for the characters, no mean feat for a cynic like me. Thankfully it didn't come across all teen/twilighty which seems to be the norm these days.The villains are very good, Dane DeHaan in particular is exceptional (is it me or does he remind you of a young Leo di Caprio?) and gives a fantastically unnerving performance - big things beckon for him no mistake.If you liked the previous Spiderman movies you'll still love this, If you didn't put any misgivings aside and give it a whirl (as i did). Either way definitely go and see this film, words I never thought I'd utter about a Spiderman movie. You Won't be disappointed.As I said - no plot details and no spoilers, just an honest opinion of my film experience.
__label__9 As the title says, I thought this was a generally good movie, not Oscar quality, but entertaining. I walked out of this movie satisfied with all aspects of this movie except for one. Throughout the movie max/electro is portrayed as a sympathetic villain that you're supposed to feel bad for. We see his ideas stolen, his accident covered up, and then after the accident he is held and experimented on. After all this, I felt genuinely bad for the character, and was hoping for a Spider-Man 3-like ending in which the sympathetic villain is given redemption in the end (just to be clear I recognize how terrible and ridiculous Spider-Man 3 was.) However, in the end of this movie electro is killed without redemption, which, in my opinion made the whole "sympathetic villain" aspect of this movie kinda redundant.All that being said however, I did thoroughly enjoy this movie, and am looking forward to future sequels. 9/10
__label__9 I personally thought this was an excellent film. It had a good amount of comedy, truly deep emotions, and brilliant action. A great, cohesive film to lead on from the first one.The relationship between the two main characters are brilliant, and you can really understand what's going on between them as both actors portray their characters very well.Also, what I like from these movies are that they are more relative to the Spider-man comic books, compared to the Spider-man Trilogy (and let's be honest, they were terrible.) If you have read the comic books, then you'll understand where I'm coming from when you see this movie.The only downside/s I feel this movie has is that Jamie Foxx, in my opinion, doesn't really fit his character and I felt that he didn't really have a massive say in the whole film, it was more about the other villain - but what I did like is that having two villains didn't make it feel like there was too much going on; it was very understandable and a pleasurable viewing experience, so the director receives points in my book for his story telling.This review is really brief as I don't want to sway your opinion on the film before you've watched it, but rather to change your opinion on whether you should watch it, and I believe that you definitely should.
__label__9 Just got home from watching The Amazing Spider- Man 2, it was great, visually stunning, action- packed and just plain epic.This new Peter Parker is always giving us proof that he deserved to be THE Spider-Man. He has the flexibility, the moves, the wit, and that 'wow' factor - that will make you stand-up and do a standing ovation for that great job he did.Time for spoilers guys. I'm warning you, I love spoilers.The plot of the story for the villain is simple, guy that's invisible to people just wanted to be recognized, just asking for a little attention. Then this guy met the Spider-Man became a huge fan, next thing happened when he needed Spidey - he felt that Spidey let him down - there comes hate and vengeance together with the idea of killing Spider-Man. Then of course, he failed. (I felt like I was watching #Lastikman which starred by Bossing. The story for villain is almost the same as that.)Harry Osborn is also here. As we all know it he wears the suit as Green Goblin, yet it was not mentioned all throughout the movie. (If it was mention, I did not hear it.) Harry here is full of hate, and much cruel too, if you would ask me. I blame him for a death of someone. (Teary.) He was prisoned, yet still control Oscorps and releases villains from Oscorps 'special projects', with the help of that guy. (I'm guessing he will be Dr. Octopus, just a wild guess, though.)Oh wait, I said someone died? Made you curious, huh? I'll spoil it out for you then.Gwen died. Gwen Stacy. Fvckin' died.I know that Gwen is going to die, we all knew that. I did not know that she will fvckin' die on this movie, I was thinking that she'll be killed on the third installment. I was shocked. I'm expecting it, there were signs during the first part of the movie, yet it still surprised me when that scene happened. Damn! Poor Gwen. I will miss her.The post-Gwen-died scene is so short. I don't know, I was thinking that Peter would somehow die a little as well. 'Cause he loved her, man. That's hard. He said he follow her, anywhere. She's dead now, so figure. Nah! Gwen left a message to Peter during her Graduation Speech. And that's what Peter is following - not death - though Spidey might die on the third Spider-Man movie. Whoa!Sinister Six. There were lots of signs and clues spilled throughout the movie. During the releasing of 'Rhino' and also during the credits. Question is, will Spider-Man be in for the Sinister Six movie?Oh, and news flash! There is NO POST-CREDITS SCENE, so don't bother staying longer. There was one though, during the middle of credits. They showed a clip from X-Men: Days of Future Past. I know, right? Completely out of the picture. It was Mystique attacking a military base to free some mutants. And you can see that scenes on the trailers, most of it.I think that's it. Oh wait, have you seen on that TASM2 trailer where Harry Osborn shows Peter that he's been under surveillance by Oscorp and then Peter asks why. Then Harry says, "Isn't that the question of the day?" Have seen that on the trailers? 'Cause I did not see that in the movie, I might have missed it though. Haha LolzOK that's really it. 8.5/10#TheAmazingSpiderMan2 #PeterParker #SpoilersVsReview #GMallCinemas
__label__9 well here it is the amazing spider man 2 sure I think they are too much spider man movies at least they are good and not bad and the actors were good in this the best was harry Osbourne as he goes insane after he discovers a family disease that killed his father and is after him and how could I forget Jamie Fox as the villain of the movie who spider man saves and names him then he becomes obsessed with spider man the gets in to an accident at work and becomes power after a fight that spider man wins he becomes depressed and abandoned and gets revenge on Oscar meanwhile peter parker and Gwen Stacey and ends in tragedy all in all good
__label__9 17 April 2014 Film of Choice at The Plaza, Dorchester Tonight - The Amazing Spider-Man 2 (3D) - Marvellous Marvel does it again. If nothing else a Marvel film is entertaining, but this film was definitely better than just entertaining. A mix of superhero, ordinary folk, internal struggles and battles against the bad guys, this film also had quite a few laugh out loud moments too. One of the most telling story lines yet this episode deals with the internal struggles that Peter Parker goes through to balance his everyday life, with family, love of his girl and his obligation to save the general population. I know as the audience we are privy to all the secrets on the good side and the bad side, but it never ceases to amaze me that the person closest to him, his Aunt May, has never discovered the spider suit which is just sitting in a heap in his closet, open your eyes lady, the guy you raised from a small boy is one of the coolest super heroes around. I quite like Andrew Garfield as Spider Man, he balances his fun side with the angst needed to capture this story line to perfection. 3D gets better and better by the way!!!!
__label__9 A science fiction movie made by Disney seems interesting enough especially when it's live-action and targeted for kids (Disney targets its movies for kids, right?). And there it is, "Tron: Legacy", a science fiction movie, Disney science fiction movie, live-action and targeted for kids. And yet, 3D."Tron: Legacy" is actually a sequel to the 1982 revolutionary film, "Tron" and marks the directorial debut of Joseph Kosinski. "Legacy" sets Kevin's son, Sam Flynn, 27 years in age as the main character who gets a message from Kevin (or so it is) from the world of Tron. He then goes to Flynn's arcade, enters some sort of mysterious room and plays with a computer which digitized him and entered him to the world of Tron. Then, he fights with other programs trying to find his father, Kevin Flynn who disappeared years ago. On the way, he meets Quorra, some cool machines and of course, Clu (Kevin's program).I watched "Legacy" and found it to be really good. The rendering of the world of Tron was really breathtaking and got me in awe. All of the world is definitely going to make "Tron: Legacy" one hell of a blockbuster film and surely, one of the best films on the year 2010.The acting had no problem. Jeff Bridges, after all those years since the first film is still fresh as ever. Garrett Hedlund was also not a problem in the film. Olivia Wilde as Quorra was stunning. The acting was definitely perfect. Everything.The 3D effects. This was one funny thing. In the beginning of the film, it was noted that some parts of the film were in 2D and some were in 3D and you were asked to not take your 3D glasses off. I did broke the rule several times and saw something unique. Parts that were set in the real world, not in the world of Tron were displayed in 2D and parts that were set in the world of Tron were displayed in 3D. Anyways, the 3D worked pretty well. The Lightcycles in the film and all the things in the world of Tron, displayed in 3D were awesome.The score of the film was also exciting. (The soundtrack was also great as it reached number 10 on the Billboard 200.) It was very awesome and thrilling with all the bass and everything. Overall, "Tron: Legacy" is worth to watch. 3D works pretty fine in watching this film. Young kids would not really like this but maybe aged 8 and above would do. I believe this is the best film for December 2010 and is a good way to end blockbuster movies of 2010. Great job, Kosinski. Prince AJB's Score: 85%Thank you for reading my review on "Tron: Legacy" and hope it's useful.
__label__9 I liked very much the other "Toy Story" films, and I loved all the Pixar films, finding all to be clever, well animated and with a good message for the children."Toy Story 3" manages to be both funny, clever and heartwarming, introducing a lot of new character, but no one of them feels out of place. Even the villain, Lotso the bear, it is pretty likable and interesting character.This is a beautiful goodbye letter to all those who loved the "Toy Story" saga since the beginning of it, and it is one of the most satisfying and heartwarming conclusions ever released for cinema. I highly recommend this film to anyone.
__label__9 Is there Life after playtime? Can you handle a film in which the toys are playing with us, the audience? The third chapter of the Toy Story saga asks some tough questions of viewers, but the rewards of seeing this remarkable film outweigh the emotional toll.It's the last week of summer before Andy heads off to college, and Woody (Tom Hanks) and the other remaining toys in Andy's bedroom find themselves in fear of what's to become of them. It looks like the attic, but events conspire to throw them a day-care center called Sunnyside. It looks swell enough, at first..."You'll never be outgrown, or neglected," the toys are informed by the chuckily plush play bear Lots-O (Ned Beatty). "Never abandoned or forgotten. No owners means - no heartbreak!"It's odd to see a film series that started out as an animated lark turn into "Watership Down", but there's always been some existential angst at the heart of the enterprise, c.f. the fragile buddy system employed in the first "Toy Story", Sid's hapless victims, and talk of rummage sales. The second film pushed these buttons a bit harder, to the point of losing the humor.This time the drama is stronger than ever, yet the film amazingly manages to stay refreshingly clever and hilarious. We meet Ken (Michael Keaton), who introduces himself to Barbie saying "We were made for each other". Ken must deal with wisecracks about being a girl's toy, or as Mr. Potato Head (Don Rickles) puts it, "an accessory, a purse with legs." The daycare center is also fabulously realized, a cacophony of misfit toys all showing signs of wear from constant play. Every now and again we break away to see Woody in his new situation, being played with by a girl named Bonnie who is very nice but has a left-field imagination. "We do a lot of improv here," another toy tells him.All this is very funny, and director Lee Unkrich and the Pixar writers and artists find brilliant ways to keep humor close to the center of things throughout. Yet this movie is no lark. One of the funniest scenes the first time I saw this movie three weeks ago, involving a cutaway to a clown staring at a window, got hardly a laugh when I saw it again tonight. I think it was because the rest of the audience, like me, knew what was coming; a sad story about cosmic indifference and cold-hearted abandonment which sets in motion the real emotional undertow of the film.Set against this is Woody's firm if shaken resolution to "be there for Andy", even when it seems he and the other toys are no longer wanted by their owner. It's a message of faith you relate to, yet it also brings out another point, the notion of change, even painful change, as needful. The toys know they'll be neglected, perhaps forever, if exiled to the attic, but prefer it to the unknown. This actually makes sense. What can happen out there isn't very nice, but even in the face of extinction the film suggests a certain nobility through acceptance can be still possible. It's a pretty heavy message to take away from watching a G-rated comedy.The film doesn't leave you on a down note, but it's a funny thing. In the past, I always looked forward to the post-credit goof scenes as something to laugh at on my way out of the theater. This time, I appreciated it just as much as a chance to wipe my eyes before I got out of my chair. It still felt good, though.
__label__9 I just got back from seeing a midnight screening of the newest installment in The Terminator franchise, going into it with an open mind after witnessing the debacle that was T3 several years ago. Having said this, I honestly felt at though this movie did a fantastic job of translating the visions of the future that were set up in the original Terminator and T2 and fleshing out a feature-length film of them. While there indeed a few "what in the hell were they thinking" moments in the chase scenes, I felt that on the whole, the movie was a wonderful success, gripping me in a way that T3 never came close to. I truly hope prospective viewers give this film the shot that it rightly deserves and go into it with an open mind, and are able to just sit back and enjoy the ride...its a terrific one, trust me. Leaving the theater, I honestly felt as though this one gave the first two a run for their money as a film, as much as it pained me to say it. Truly a magnificent job breathing life into a series that could have very easy been done in once and for all with another terrible installment.
__label__9 Perhaps Furious 7 wouldn't have that Box Office success and Popularity if the sudden death of one the main protagonists, Paul Walker AKA Brian O'Conner wouldn't have gotten in the way.But this is how it is. The heartbreaking death of Paul in that terrible car crash has made this movie so special to the heart of the long standing fans. The script can be so cliché and full of inconsistencies, this movie is the last film of Paul Walker and will always be.But what makes me to give that high note is the ending scene and the awesome tribute the rest of the fast and furious 'familia' made to Paul. They could have gotten his character to die like we have seen so many times in the past. Instead the scriptwriters rewrote the script to make a celebration of life and family.In fact, This entire saga is more about family than cars. Cars and race are just the theme and the objects attracting our attention. But the most important part of that story is the strong relationship between the characters and their interprets who are as linked in real life as they are in the movie. Each time one of their own dies they face it together as the actors are actually doing it with the loss of Paul the only REAL loss of this community. And this is what is making this beautiful.
__label__9 As a F&F fan, I've enjoyed every movie in the franchise excluding F3. But, that movie has an important part and effect to the franchise. And now to the film, It was a full action flick alongside with a tear crying tribute to Paul Walker. From the first race of Leticia to the last scene between O'Connor and Toretto, It was one of the best movie in the franchise. The Core part of the story tells us about good ol' fashioned revenge combined with Speed of NOS and muscle. Deckard Shaw seeks out his kind of style revenge which pulls Toretto and his family into Shaw's world.And so, he combine forces Mr. Nobody to complete a mission for him and in return gets Deckerd Shaw. What happens afterwards, is your's to see. The performance of Vin Diesel and Paul Walker is fantastic. From the Screenplay to their actions, their brother 2 brother relationship was amazing. Michelle Rodriguez played her principal cast perfectly. She had done homework in her fighting and she looks gorgeous as always. Ludicrous and Tyrese Gibson played their respective roles well and their chemistry for humor doesn't cease to amaze at most of the times. Rock and Tony Jaa and other's also played their part to their maximum. But Elsa Pataky wasn't given that much to her role. She was a like a cameo appearance but it wasn't that much necessary to include in the whole movie. The graphics and stunts was nearly mind blowing except that the CGI work done for Paul is notable at some times. But, it wasn't that much drawback for the movie as he played his part well and his brother's completed the work he is done. The franchise might have losen a big cast, but it manages to keep the film to the edge of the seat climax. The tribute given by Vin Diesel for him is absolutely superb. It was very touching when he said,"It's never Goodbye" and when they separate in cross roads, it was really amazing to give such an tribute to Paul Walker.Overall, as the franchise keeps promising its Action and Adrenaline, it manages to keep it together even though they lost Paul Walker. A must see for everyone. Try it in a cinema and your money's value will be nicely spent for a good entertainment.
__label__9 Dominic Toretta (Vin Diesel) gets his Team together to take out Deckard Shaw (Jason Statham) who is on a revenge kick blaming Dominic for his brother lying in a coma. But first, the Team must find and protect Ramsey (Nathalie Emmanuel) a master Hacker/Programmer, who created God's Eye, a program that can locate anyone anywhere on the planet. Mr. Nobody (Kurt Russell), the head of Black Ops, says Ramsey must be found if Dominic wants his help with Shaw.This should be watched for the stunts and CGI as both are terrific. We will see cars race down a mountain side with many trees in the way; and also see a car jump from one hi-rise building in Dubai into another hi-rise building. These stunts or CGI (who can tell anymore) will take your breath away.The pacing is very good for these stunts and CGI, but when Dominic and Shaw did hand-to-hand combat it went on forever. The scene would cut away often to the Team in cars trying to avoid the helicopter intent on taking them out with missiles, then revert back to these two who were still at it. Did I mention "still" at it. Yes, way too long. The real winners in here are, of course, the stunts and CGI because they were terrific. And mention must be made for the photography, editing and cinematography as they were spot on.Notables: Dwayne Johnson as Hobbs, Michelle Rodrigues as Letty, Lucacris as Tej, Jordana Brewster as Mia, Tyrese Gibson as Roman, Lucas Black as Sean, and Ronda Rousey the Champion MMA fighter. You will see Rhonda as Kara in a white dress fighting Letty. (a cat fight?) And certainly Paul Walker (Brian) who died in a car crash (he was not driving) during the filming of Furious 7. The song "See you Again" that played in the movie was a tribute to Paul Walker.All in all this was terrific and the action never dragged or went on for too long as scene changes helped that out a lot. This will be hard to top and there is talk of Furious 8. Ready for it? (9/10)Violence: Yes. Sex: No. Nudity: Bikini and thong backsides. Language: Small stuff and not much of it.
__label__9 I thought that it was actually a really good movie. I don't mean that I don't like the other movies, I just think that it's hard to get this movies as good as the first 6. I thought the editing crew did a really good job at taking scenes from the other movies to make it seem like Paul was there the whole time. The part of Ramsey was really good, she worked well with the other actors especially Vin. The song choices were really good and they went along with the movie really well. The plot twits were really good for me because I love movies that you can't tell what's going to happen. Such as Dom being married to Letty the whole time. I don't know if anybody was expecting that but I wasn't at all. In conclusion I like the movie and it would have to be one of my favorites out of the seven.
__label__9 Furious Seven (aka The Fast and Furious 7), directed by James Wan, was a roller coaster of emotions for many viewers. Continuing from the storyline after the events of The Fast and Furious: Tokyo Drift and Fast & Furious 6, Dominic Toretto investigates the murder of his long-time friend Han. Han was a previous member of the Fast & Furious crew in the past few installments. Following the investigation, Toretto discovers that Deckard Shaw is targeting Dom and his crew. Deckard, played by Jason Statham, is seeking revenge for the condition of his brother Owen Shaw. Once again, Dom gathers the remaining members of his team (Brian, Tej, Roman and Letty) to take down Deckard. Throughout the movie, Deckard seems to always be a few steps ahead of Dom, interrupting the crew's plans to capture Deckard. Toretto encounters Mr. Nobody, a government official, and discusses with him the possibility of catching Deckard. Mr. Nobody is in a struggle with Somalian terrorist Jakonde to obtain the powerful computer program "God's Eye". Mr. Nobody asks for the help of Toretto and his team to steal the computer program, and in return, he will allow Toretto to use the program to locate Deckard. With action packed car chases and thrilling flight moments, it's a race of time for Dom and Deckard to have their final face-off and prove which of the two would come out of their fight alive. The Fast & Furious franchise was originally known for its modified cars, street racing, and crime induced thrills from its first movie. Justin Lin, director for the Fast & Furious installments 2-6, focused on modern cars that take "fast" to the next level. James Wan, the new director for the 7th installment of the franchise, proceeded to take the series into a more action driven direction. A few notable death-defying moments in Furious 7 were creatively written to add more thrill to the film. In the beginning of the movie, Hobbs, played by Dwayne Johnson, jumped out of a police building seconds before Deckard threw a grenade at him. When Toretto and his team needed to ambush Jakande undetected, they decided to skydive in their cars to Jakande's location. The most memorable scene for me was when Toretto and Brian drove off Abu Dhabi's Etihad Towers in a Lykan Hypersport car. The cinematography of the beautiful sunset and glossy towers while the car was in slow motion midair was breathtaking. It really showed the extravagance and majesty of Abu Dhabi. With the movie's thrilling car flying scenes and intense fight or flight moments, James Wan successfully keeps us at the edge of our seats. The movie ties up all the previous installments to lead the plot into one intertwined direction. When looking at the time line of the story in each installment, the movies follow the plot starting from the 1st movie, to the 2nd, 4th, and then the 5th. Afterwards, the storyline moves on to the 3rd & 6th simultaneously. From the storyline of its 3rd and 6th installments, Furious 7 connects the time line and adds elements found from the previous movies. A scene in Furious 7 involved Toretto's team in a high speed chase that allowed one of the cars to slip right under a moving truck, which is an element found in the first movie. In Furious 7, another scene depicts one of the Toretto members driving backwards to rescue the programmer of the God's Eye. A similar circumstance is found in the 2nd installment when Brian drove his car backwards to rescue Roman. It was very clever of Wan to embed elements like these from prior movies. The decision to include these creative elements conveys the connection that bridges the franchise under Justin Lin to this "new" and developing franchise under James Wan. In every Fast & Furious movie, Toretto emphasizes his focus on family. Family is the number one thing he protects and risks his entire life for. However, in Furious 7, it is presented in a different but more elaborate way. In the 7th installment, the theme of family transforms into closure for Han, Letty, and Brian. Han's death was a terrible loss for the Toretto family, and Toretto's answer for his death was revenge. After discovering that Han's death wasn't an accident, Toretto set out to settle the score with Deckard Shaw who murdered him. Letty's closure dealt with getting her memory back, as she was diagnosed with amnesia from her incident in the previous movie. Toretto needed his number one support system during the movie and was greatly concerned over Letty's stability. He struggled with Letty's condition because he couldn't let go of their history. When Letty got her memory back, Toretto and Letty got married, which solidified Toretto's family values. Brian was the biggest loss to not only the Toretto family, but to the Fast & Furious franchise as well. The writers and director were able to adapt to the sudden and unfortunate loss of a main cast member of the movie. Paul Walker, who played Brian O' Conner, was unfortunately involved in a fatal car accident shortly before the completion of the film. The director did a wonderful job of casting Walker's brothers Caleb and Cody to complete Brian's plot line. As a tribute to Walker, the movie ended with Toretto parting ways with Brian. The ending suggests that Brian settles down with his family. Many people may not agree with the transition on the focus of the movie. Moving from high-speed car races loaded with modifications and cleverly planned heists to high action packed scenes and impossible death-defying dangerous escapes, the Fast & Furious series is evolving into a typical genre we can find in many action movies today.
__label__9 Fast and Furious is a series of action films by James Wan; it is one of the best American franchises which centers on heists, crimes and illegal street racing. The film was established in 2001 with the title The Fast and The Furious, and the last film of the series called Furious Seven just came out at the beginning of this year. This movie is definitely one my favorites so far this year because of it's fascinating scenes, interesting story and great characters.The movie Furious Seven took place after Dominic Toretto and Brian O'Connor and the rest of their team defeated and hospitalized Owen Shaw. Dominic and his team decided to come back to the United States to live a normal life with their family. Shortly after the death of Owen Shaw, his older brother, Deckard Shaw was seeking revenge against Toretto and his team. After Deckard Shaw killed Dominic's close friend Han, one of the main characters in the previous series, Toretto and O'Connor gathered the team and were on the hunt for Deckard Shaw. The team also got helped from a secretive government agency after they had freed a kidnapped computer hacker, who had created a device that can help them capture Shaw. Deckard Shaw was the antagonist in the movie, and Dominic Toretto was the leader of their group. All the orders were given from Toretto. He and his team now put it all in the line for one last ride. They decided to return to their hometown, Los Angeles, to fight Deckard Shaw. After all, justice always win. Shaw was taken into custody and locked away in a high-security prison, and Toretto, Brian and the team could finally be off retired with their family.James Wan, director of the movie did a really good job on connecting all the circumstances which made the film more interesting. All the actors in the movie had different roles that they portrayed. For example Dominic Toretto was the leader of the team, so he always has a stern deep voice and a tough exterior that a leader would. The film took place in many locations like Los Angeles, Tokyo, and India. The outfits that they characters had worn were not flashy. It was standard clothing that an average person would wear. The effects in the movie were very precise. Nothing seemed to have many computerized effects to it. The angels were shot in all directions where the audience was able to see all of the action that was taking place. Also the angles were all being shot to where the cars are being shown in all directions. The sound effects in the movie were accurate, the sound of the cars were exactly how you would hear it if it passed by on the street. Using real authentic sounds for their vehicles and weapons made the movie come to life.The movie ended with a wonderful tribute to Paul Walker, played as Brian who died in a car accident in the middle of filming the movie. This is one of the emotional moments that got so many tears from the fans of both the series and the actor.
__label__9 With its mind-boggling premise and jaw-dropping cast, X-Men: Days Of Future Past blasts into cinemas bearing the weight of great expectations. Surely this mash-up of X-Men past and future has the potential to be the best superhero blockbuster our world will ever see? Well, yes and no.To be strictly objective, Days Of Future Past can occasionally come off as a little too earnest, its enormous cast of characters getting somewhat lost in the grinding of its narrative gears. But, when it works (which is most of the time), Days Of Future Past comes pretty darn close to nerdvana – this is a smart, rich film that effectively mines its source material (both the movies and Chris Claremont's classic 1981 storyline in the comic books) and its incredible cast for emotion, power and depth.Flash forward to the bleakest of futures. X-Men we have known – led by perennial frenemies Professor Charles Xavier (Patrick Stewart) and Erik Lensherr/Magneto (Ian McKellen) – are being hunted mercilessly by a horde of intelligent, death-mongering robots known as Sentinels. With little hope for survival, the desperate X-Men decide to send Wolverine (Hugh Jackman) back in time to the 1970s. There, he must find the younger Charles (James McAvoy) and Erik (Michael Fassbender) – several years estranged after the traumatic events of X-Men: First Class – and get them to change the future before it can happen.Sounds simple enough? Not really. Days Of Future Past frequently threatens to fall foul of its complicated puzzle-box of a narrative, one that involves time travel, quantum physics and a swirling mess of characters, action and motivations. There's Dr. Bolivar Trask (Peter Dinklage), creator of the Sentinel programme, whose assassination in the past by Charles' pseudo-sister Raven (Jennifer Lawrence) brings about the dystopia of the future. There are prison breaks, astral projections, and several grisly mutant deaths. Truthfully, this incredibly ambitious mix of character, plot and spectacle could very easily go horribly wrong.What's so impressive about director Bryan Singer's return to the franchise is how well he weaves all the disparate threads of his narrative together. This is emphatically not the Singer who gave us mediocre misfires like Superman Returns and Jack The Giant Slayer. Rather, this is the work of the Singer who made his mark with films like X1, X2 and The Usual Suspects, all of which featured a masterful blend of wit and wisdom, character and story.In Days Of Future Past, Singer skilfully plays on the schism that opened up between Erik and Charles at the end of First Class to add welcome depths of emotion to the high stakes already in play. The deep, difficult relationship between the two men has always been the fulcrum of the series, and Singer allows it to breathe and grow. With the help of McAvoy and Fassbender (not to mention Stewart and McKellen), some of the best actors in the business, the director makes it possible to believe that resentment can give way to forgiveness, and vice versa, often in the blink of an eye. McAvoy, in particular, gives a shudderingly good performance as a man called upon to help others when he's lost his own way.With such an enormous revolving cast of characters, Singer even manages to give many – though not all – of them their hearts and souls. (Alas, Storm/Ororo, we will never know ye!) Thrust into the unlikely role of mentor to the broken, heartsore Charles, Wolverine must find a different sort of strength and ingenuity within himself. Jackman plays the role beautifully, anchoring the two timelines with charm and gravitas. Though still something of an awkward fit for her part, Lawrence, too, plays Raven's dilemma very well, as she wavers between Charles' offer of hope and Erik's often bloody single-mindedness.But Days Of Future Past doesn't just mire itself in the toss and tumble of its characters' emotional journeys. Singer throws in a few crackerjack action sequences, opening the film with a heart-stopping massacre that very effectively underscores the dire threat posed by the Sentinels of the future. Crucially, Singer also finds the time and space within the darkest shadows of his story to have a little fun, judiciously tossing quips and sight gags into the mix – particularly in a tour de force prison break sequence, in which the preternaturally speedy Pietro Maximoff (Evan Peters), better known to comic aficionados as Quicksilver, literally runs away with the entire show.Make no mistake about it, this is a behemoth of a film that won't go down well with everybody. Newbies will almost certainly find themselves lost, bewildered, and perhaps even bored. Singer's tale sprawls in so many directions that, if you're not at least marginally invested in the characters, it could prove to be a trying experience.But, for everyone else, ranging from casual fans to enthusiasts and obsessives, Singer and screenwriter Simon Kinberg have crafted something truly remarkable. Steeped in history and lore, both of the cinematic and comic-book variety, Days Of Future Past feels like a dark love letter to the spirit of that original band of mutants and the message of hope, tolerance and humanity that has always accompanied their attempts to find their place on Earth.Most remarkably of all, Days Of Future Past practically radiates a bravery and freshness that you'd never expect from the seventh film in a blockbuster franchise. Instead of playing it safe and sound, Days Of Future Past mashes up past, present and future, sweeping up a lot of what has been taken for granted in the X-Men cinematic universe and, well, chucking it out of the proverbial window. The ending of this film truly opens up an intriguing plethora of narrative possibilities that stretch in any and all directions. On the strength of this outing, that's something to be anticipated, rather than feared.
__label__9 simply said it was well directed and well acted with good pacing,great cgi effects and epic soundtrack. what more can you expect from a superhero movie? X-Men might be my favorite superhero movie (except wolverine spin off), and DOFP might be the best of them. It's an all star movie with a good director (everything not related to professionalism is irrelevant), in paper it's guaranteed to be at least a decent movie,and boy, they didn't disappoint me at all, really surpassed my expectation.I am absorbed, nothing else matter except the scenes in front of me.It already had my attention since the overview of the future narrated by professor X. The story has a good pacing,not to slow but not to fast. I didn't notice any plot holes, and there's nothing in the script that annoyed me. Bryan Singer could handle the dramatic and epic scenes very well. the dramatic scenes makes me teared up a little,the epic scenes put me on the edge of my seat. And he sew the humor seamlessly, it was appropriate and subtle,just what I like.They said that DOFP lack of any definitive villains, but any movie doesn't need definitive villains to be good. X-Men movies is always about fighting the enemy inside every humans and mutants, it's always about self struggle, defeating the darkness inside of you.4/5 (cause nothing's perfect)
__label__9 The Parisian premiere was yesterday and therefore, I actually did see the movie and let me tell you this: all the waiting and fuss around this movie is well worth it and well deserved. It is a great movie, easily relatable in many ways.I won't say a word about the acting. When you have established actors such as McAvoy — who repeatedly stole the screen with his heart-clenching performance — and Fassbender, along with their older 'counterparts' — McKellen and Stewart — you are in for a treat when it comes to the acting performance itself. No surprise there.This movie is a great movie in the sense that it finds its source in the very core of humanity's struggles, and shows that Xmen's themes — much like Marvel's latest movies — are still very relevant in the world today. You will see that yourself.The movie is action packed. There is no irrelevant scenes — I tend to judge movies by the ratio of irrelevant scenes per minute in it — and there is no break between action scenes and more emotional, storyline scenes. You won't be bored. But along with the action, and the acting, there is also the usual dose of humor found in most Marvel movies, without being out of place and without cutting the pace of the movie in itself. There, Hugh Jackman will provide you with a few laughs, or at least, will bring a smile to your face.The cinematography in itself was excellent. Excellent use of the 3D. Great camera work — at some point, you will be rather amazed by the use of slow mo and 3D.So, why not 10 out of 10 then? Because of the score. If the soundtrack was good, it didn't match what I got used to with the recent Marvel movies. Good score but not as good as I expected it to be. Maybe it was because we were all more focused on the fast-paced action scenes and the storyline in itself rather than whatever was playing behind. I might need to go back and watch it again once it's out for general public to really appreciate the little details that I might have missed in a cinema filled with excited fans.But over all, it was an excellent, entertaining and relevant Xmen movie. A good movie. A great Xmen movie. Full of Easter eggs for more hardcore fans as well. The waiting was worth it.
__label__9 After the disappointing and directionless X3: The Last Stand and the  abysmal X-Men Origins: Wolverine, prospects for the continuation of the  franchise had gone from great to grim in just a few short years.  Desperate to breathe life back into the series, 20th Century Fox turned  to director Bryan Singer to help right the ship, and although Singer  didn't return to the director's chair, he oversaw production of X-Men:  First Class, an origin story centered on the friendship between Charles  Xavier (James McAvoy) and Erik Lensherr (Michael Fassbender) in their  early years.  A critical and commercial success, First Class set the stage for an  expanded X-Men universe featuring younger versions of the mutant  superheroes, but many fans still clamored for more adventures featuring  the original cast. With Singer back at the helm, X-Men: Days of Future  Past aims to balance precariously between the two, giving the original  on screen mutants one last chance to shine, while simultaneously  pushing the younger generation forward, and fixing a few glaring  continuity errors along the way.  The film opens with a tremendous action sequence in the near future,  where an army of mutant-hunting robots called Sentinels have driven the  X-Men underground. This sequence of events was set into motion some 50  years earlier, when Mystique (Jennifer Lawrence) assassinated Bolivar  Trask, a military scientist and anti-mutant activist whose experimental  Sentinel program would only be accelerated by his untimely demise.  With only a handful of their kind remaining, and their numbers  dwindling seemingly by the second, the elder Xavier (Patrick Stewart)  and Magneto (Ian McKellan) discover that Kitty Pryde (Ellen Page) has  the ability to transport a person's consciousness into their younger  self. It's a painful experience, one that Xavier is far too fragile to  withstand, but thanks to his innate healing ability, Wolverine (Hugh  Jackman) is the perfect candidate to be sent back to alter the events  that led to the destruction of the mutant race.  Waking up in his 1973 body, Wolverine is tasked with tracking down and  reuniting Xavier and Lensherr to stop the assassination of Trask. Easy  enough, right? Unfortunately, Xavier has become a bitter, reclusive  alcoholic, wasting away in his mansion with his only remaining friend,  Hank McCoy (Nicholas Hoult), while Lensherr is incarcerated in the most  secure building in the United States after being implicated in the  death of President Kennedy. After all, as Xavier puts it, "who else  could curve a bullet?"  Getting Lensherr out of trouble is a seemingly impossible task, but  Wolverine knows a guy. That guy is the young Pietro Maximoff, better  known as Quicksilver (Evan Peters), and his handful of scenes are some  of the most entertaining moments in the film, particularly an escape  sequence that conveys his super-speed abilities by shooting at 3000  frames per second. There have been glimpses of this moment during the  film's trailers, but the scene as a whole is staggeringly beautiful,  and the character's bizarre sense of humor provides a sense of joy and  playfulness that are noticeably absent from the rest of the film.  That's not to say X-Men: Days of Future Past is not enjoyable - on the  contrary, it's a thrilling experience from start to finish, with plenty  of emotional resonance to go along with all the action and special  effects. Jackman's performance is less growling menace and more wise  mediator, adding yet another dimension to an already complex character.  McAvoy and Fassbender still have remarkable chemistry, but the film  truly belongs to Lawrence, whose ability to emote through layers of  body paint and prosthetics makes Mystique more relatable than ever  before.  While it's a shame that most of the original X-Men cast are relegated  to cameos, those minor appearances tend to come during jaw-dropping  action scenes. The futuristic battles between the Sentinels and the  last remaining mutants are a joy to behold, with Iceman (Shawn Ashmore)  finally using his abilities in ways that fans have always wanted to  see, and newcomers like Blink (Fan Bingbing) and Bishop (Omar Sy)  getting an opportunity to kick ass alongside the veterans.  There are also plenty of references to the previous X-Men films, as  Days of Future Past attempts to bridge the gap between the original  trilogy and the reboot. William Stryker (Josh Helman) is a looming  presence throughout the film, with his work evoking images of the  Weapon X program, and the final moments are full of fan service cameos  that effectively close the book on the original characters. For the  most part, it succeeds, and while there are still a few questions  remaining, there's so much to love here that the minor details no  longer feel relevant.  X-Men: Days of Future Past is a return to form for Singer, whose  directorial efforts since the first two films have been rather poorly  received. His emotional connection to the material and his love for the  characters has never been more evident, and the X-Men have never been  more compelling or entertaining. This latest installment proves there's  still plenty of life left in the franchise, and we can't wait to see  what comes next when the mutants return in 2016.  -- Brent Hankins
__label__9 So what was everyone expecting with this film to give it such harsh reviews and ratings? We do remember this is a children's bedtime story right? I thought that the movie was great. The giants are a little scary, depending on the child this may not be the movie for them as the giants are somewhat gruesome beasts. All the nerds out there complaining about the CGI and poor quality of the giants, go get a girlfriend, watch some sports and stop being such a geek. Special effects and CGI are fine in this movie, again this is a movie about a fairy tale so imagination should be something needed for a film about flesh hungry giants that live in the sky. Most of us know the ending to this movie without watching it, but the extra story line added in to extend the movie are entertaining and do not spoil the film or change the classic story we all know. I recommend this movie, but please watch it with an open mind and remember that your watching a film of a child fantasy story. I give this film a 9....more of a 7-8 but I threw it an extra point or two just cause all the dorks who are highly critical of such non sense regarding a film about a kids bed time story ha ha.
__label__9 If you even have a passing knowledge of the, "Jack and the Beanstalk," fairy tale, then you know the story of Jack the Giant Slayer. Where director Bryan Singer's film finds its footing and stands on its own is that it doesn't try to reimagine the fairy tale as something darker or more twisted, but rather makes the film like a Golden Age Errol Flynn adventure film, such as The Adventures of Robin Hood. Jack the Giant Slayer is a very simple film in that you know who the heroes and the villains are from the first time you see them, it's not looking to overcomplicate the fairy tale or create surprise. The film utilizes the archetypal characters from the Hero's Journey, just as the original Star Wars did, and from the first moments you see farm boy Jack and princess Isabelle, you know their motivations and you're already in love with them. Nicholas Hoult and Eleanor Tomlinson have very good chemistry as Jack and Isabelle, but the performance I loved the most was Ewan McGregor doing his best Errol Flynn impression as swashbuckler, Elmont the knight. Rounding out the cast is Stanley Tucci as bad guy Roderick, and he's the type of mustache twirling bad guy you remember from all those great adventure flicks of your youth.What really sells this film as a throwback to the Golden Age of Hollywood, is that the film never takes itself too seriously and always remains lighthearted and adventurous, with jokes even in some of the more serious moments where Singer and company could have made it darker. Then there's the spot on musical score by John Ottman, who channels the best of Old Hollywood's go-to adventure film composer, Max Steiner, with a recurring theme that is memorable and heroic. However, what really separates this film from being like those Errol Flynn swashbucklers, is the sheer scope of the story.A film like this could not have been made in the Golden Age of Hollywood, and I would argue that this film could have not even been made ten years ago, in live action at least. To effectively pull this concept off, the film required tons of special effects to work, and while some of the CGI work isn't always photorealistic and a little cartoonish, all of the giants are created through motion capture performance technology, and without it this film could not have been realized. It's this ginormous scale that makes the film modern and not simply a throwback to a bygone era of movie-making. Though, to assume that Jack the Giant Slayer is so simple that it doesn't actually have anything to say, would also be wrong.The true brilliance of Jack the Giant Slayer is the thematic idea that ties the entire story together of how stories are told, and how stories change over time and become myth or are taken out of context, to where people often forget that something they read in a book actually occurred and is the truth. I found this commentary hitting very close to home. Whether it's history, myth, or a religious tome, many people nowadays seem to not ever think twice about the stories that exist in our society and refuse to believe, and Jack the Giant Slayer has me genuinely thinking about the truths so often ignored in those stories.I give Jack the Giant Slayer a 9 out of 10!
__label__9 Bryan Singer's best work to date, and an astonishingly "agenda-free" re-imagining which, rare for this day and age, seems to seek merely to entertain and give pleasure. No big name actors looking for scenery to chew. No attempt to start a new Hollywood dynasty by casting close family members (a concept Will Smith will never grasp in his lifetime). No worry that in a few years they will unleash a "do over" because there may yet be another $12 of ticket sales out there that the first one missed (a la Hulk, or Spiderman, or Superman). Contains a pure and unabashed joyfulness not see since the early days of Ray Harryhausen. Highly recommended.
__label__9 Baz Luhrmann really has outdone himself in this film. The cast is beautiful as is the script. The scenes are a visual feast. It is as if Luhrmann reached into Fitzgerald's vision of the 20's, pulled out the heart of it and merged it with what society is today, over nine decades later. Alongside personal strife, we see social inequality, abuse of drugs and alcohol, political and moral corruption, and the failure of financial institutions and their responsibility to people. This film will make you feel that these issues will always be relevant, and that not much changes from generation to generation.The achingly romantic and hopeful Gatsby is played impeccably by DiCaprio. He has aged into a beautiful man while still possessing those boyish good looks. The beginning of the film has the viewer itching to see Gatsby and hear him speak, and when he finally appears he holds on and captivates throughout the film. The film may awaken something in you, a memory of when you were crazy in love with a person or in love with an idea for what your life should be. DiCaprio embodies a dream and makes you root for him, even though he is shown to be a liar and a man who is desperately trying to steal another's wife- all that does not matter because we see the gentle child-like frailty in him and identify with it. DiCaprio is an excellent actor and was perfect for the role.I must say that I didn't think that Mulligan can pull the role of Daisy, who in my mind was supposed to be a flawless beauty. However, she didn't disappoint. It made Gatsby's love and desire for her even more fascinating- she was beautiful to him and that's all that mattered. Mulligan was able to play the spoiled and dazed rich girl well, while adding an emotional dimension to the character. Tobey Mcguire definitely held his own, and his story line had an interesting deviation from the novel which was enjoyable. All in all I think it is a must see this year for movie buffs.
__label__9 THE GREAT GATSBY There is no movie I have been more prepared to dislike than this one. How dare some Aussie come over here and tell us about the meaning of one of the great works of American literature. Especially this Aussie, Baz Luhrmann, who is known to overload, over-hype and overcook his theatrical product into a glittery miasma of small meaning and little consequence. (i.e. Moulin Rouge) But I was wrong.Jay Gatsby has achieved success in a fashion beyond most imaginations, excepting his own. In true Horatio Alger tradition he has worked hard to improve himself, but when his past creeps up on him and threatens his well crafted self image, he suavely and effortlessly changes it, his past, and he inhabits the change until it becomes the reality. He is the self made American man in every way. He is the American success myth both personified and perverted.Unlike Alger's heroes, he has not followed the straight and narrow. He has acquired his fabulous wealth through bootlegging and stock swindles. This belief, that he can change his past, to correct it as it were, has given him a veneer of respectability that has put him in good stead with his underworld connections. But it is not for them that Gatsby has made this remarkable metamorphosis. No, he did everything, and I mean everything, for the love of a woman. Daisy was Gatsby's great love, but he lost her, and now in one final herculean effort he is going to correct his past this one last time. He is going to win her back and make things as they should have been.Leo DeCaprio is the only actor of this generation that could play Gatsby, just as Robert Redford could only play Gatsby the previous generation. Redford's Gatsby seemed reticent and insecure about his past; regretful that he must live a lie in order to accomplish his goal. DeCaprio's Gatsby is forceful, decisive; he is a determined man of significant accomplishment and great ability. He has a plan and he is going to execute it and as far as he is concerned, for all the right reasons. For myself, it is DeCaprio's best and most powerful performance. This decision (both DeCaprio's and Luhrmann's) to take Gatsby down from some ethereal literary icon into a flesh and blood human being gives the movie an intensity that the 1974 version and most of the literary criticism of the book that I have ever read, never perceived. This is not a shining white knight rescuing a damsel in distress; this is a bare knuckles brawl for the hand of Daisy, and she is going to have to choose. Tom Buchanan (Joel Edgerton) is Gatsby's antagonist. He and Daisy were married when Daisy could no longer wait for Gatsby to prove himself worthy of her. Tom is as rich, maybe even richer than Gatsby, but his money is old, he is an aristocrat with a deep sense of entitlement. He has status and wealth because he's supposed to have status and wealth, and he's not about to give up all that, and certainly not his wife, to this new money usurper Gatsby, without a fight.Bruce Dern played Tom as a kind of loopy (Dern's specialty) racial conspiracy nut, but Edgerton gives Tom a much harder edge. When Tom espouses his vile racial philosophies one might think that someday he might actually do something about it.Daisy (Carey Mulligan) is a tough role. For all the time that Gatsby spends trying to prove he is good enough for Daisy, the audience, for the book or the film, is led down the path that she is not good enough for him. Mia Farrow played Daisy as an airhead and a dingbat, but Mulligan gives Daisy a bit more spine, and fashions a character that has a pretty good idea where her self-interests lay. Luhrmann and co-writer Craig Pearse stay pretty close to the text with a few additions and devices, most notably, to those of us who read the book, know that it is Nick Caraway (Tobey Maguire) who tells the story, and is a firsthand witness to all the events, but we never knew from where he tells the story. Luhrmann tells us it is from a sanitarium where Nick is drying out from excessive alcoholism. As for Luhrmann's reputation for excess: Well, he certainly visualizes Gatsby's parties as excess, but they are supposed to be excessive, excessive materialism is part of the point of the story. There are times when Luhrmann can't resist himself and feels the compulsion to punctuate matters with some visual flourish, but I did not find it too distracting. His decision to go 3D however, I think was wise. The characters seem to come out of the screen and get next to you. You get to know them personally, and after all this is a very personal story.I think this story has survived the test of time so well because it is basically a love story. Whatever the viewers or readers opinion of the characters are, Gatsby and Daisy do love each other, but Fitzgerald was not interested in boy meets girl, boy loses girl, boy gets girl and they all live happily ever after. Where Fitzgerald reached his own aspiration of creating high art is in wondering if living happily ever after is even possible in an age of class consciousness, even class warfare, that is driven by a compulsive materialism in a world changing so fast that we can't even formulate the question before we have to come up with an answer. Luhrmann stays true to these themes and displays an avid curiosity about them himself. What he has created is a work of art that stands very well on its own.check out http://blognmovies.tumblr.com/
__label__9 Baz Luhrmann's "The Great Gatsby," is fairly accurate to the classic novel and keeps most of its themes intact. However, Luhrmann's own flair adds a new dimension to the story. Visually this film is incredibly stunning. From grand sets to the detailed period dresses, this film is a treat for the eyes. Never once does it not take your breath away from its impressive scenery. Many people might be worried about the updated music, but there is nothing to fear. Jay-Z's track works incredible well with the film and complements the era in which it is set.The direction in this film is impeccable. The cinematography is marvelous and really lets the viewer absorb the sheer artistry that has gone into making this film. Luhrmann keeps a high level of energy throughout the film and the party sequences are choreographed and edited in a way that it makes you feel envious of not being apart of it. Editing in the film is seamless and really keeps the viewer engaged. A common criticism the film receives is that it is more style than substance, however, I must disagree. This modern interpretation doesn't forget its themes and morals from the classic F. Scott Fitzgerald tale.Performances are phenomenal by the entire cast. Carey Mulligan's Daisy is every bit as careless as one would expect, but she also manages to show some complexity in her role. Tobey Maguire is a great avatar for us to take on as we enter this film. He is very much the viewer as he sees everything happening, but is ultimately helpless to change anything. The true standouts in the film are Joel Edgerton and Leonardo DiCaprio. Edgerton as Tom Buchanan brings a lot of personality to his character that I thought was absent in the book. He's a bit more tender and more vulnerable, especially when he finds out his wife's secret. The true award recognition worthy performance comes from DiCaprio's Gatsby. He hones on being a respectable, but idealistically insane man. His performance is not only compelling, but also charming and quit hopeful. He truly deserves some recognition come Oscar season.Overall, "The Great Gatsby" is a fantastically entertaining and enthralling film. It is horribly underrated as it is filled with awards worthy visuals, sets, costumes, direction, and performances. It is a great time at the movies for anyone that enjoys the classic novel or who haven't even heard of it. Not only is this film dramatically satisfying, but also quite humorous and a spectacle like no other. I give it 4.5/5, a great adaptation of one of the greatest novels ever written.
__label__9 For the record, I've read Gatsby at least every other year since I was 17, so, believe me when I say I have been counting down the days and minutes until the new movie opened.Here it goes then, I saw Gatsby last night and......absolutely loved it! In retrospect (as in halfway through the movie), it just clicked, Leonardo was perfect. He wasn't Redford, but in my humble opinion, better! He nailed it, portraying Gatsby as this truly multi-dimensional character. At first, we're introduced to Gatsby, the well-rehearsed old sport telling his canned story about studying at Oxford, Montenegro medals, etc. etc., but then slowly that forced veneer peels away, and he gives us this angsty, desperate, so-happy-in-love, we can remake the past, tortured soul. Much, much better than Redford. And, the same goes with Daisy. Mia Farrow's Daisy was all flighty and light as a feather, pretty pathetic and self-absorbed, you wonder, what's the big deal with this woman who everyone loves....but with Carey Mulligan, you get it. The scenes of the two of them as young lovers explain it all. Finally, Tobey McGuire....I love him as Peter Parker, Homer Wells and now Nick Carraway. I thought the idea of having him author Gatsby from a hospital was very clever, allowed him to read long passages directly from the book. As for Jay-Z et al., I really didn't mind it, as far as I was concerned, it didn't distract and certainly worked to illuminate the frenetic energy of the 20's. Please, give it another try, see it again. From my experience, a Baz Luhrmann movie is always better the second time around (Moulin Rogue).
__label__9 Tonight I was fortunate enough to see an advanced screening of this film. Like many, I became a fan of this franchise with the Sands of Time trilogy, and I was very excited when I learned that there were plans to make a feature film based on it. The storyline of the game is very cinematic (at least in the aforementioned trilogy, not necessarily in the previous games in the series) so I felt that at film adaptation would be an impressive epic.Having finally seen this movie, I can say that I was not at all disappointed!One of the main strengths going into this movie was it's involvement of the series creator Jordan Mechner. He crafted a very engaging screen story that pushed beyond the controller, creating an entirely new addition to the mythos. I know that at times including the creator can sometimes stifle the process, as many will fight changes to the source material that may need to be altered to work better with a director's vision; but I feel that Mechner's involvement showed his desire to see his brain-child develop into a success on the big screen.In addition to involving Mechner, the other big strength was the way that the filmmakers chose to handle the story. Let's face it, movies based on video games have a very poor track record. Super Mario Brothers, Street Fighter, Tomb Raider... all of them made for films that were mediocre at best, and downright abysmal at worst. Prince of Persia had a mighty big hurdle to clear with this, and they found the perfect team to tackle it. Jerry Bruckheimer and Disney already accomplished a similar feat when they brought Pirates of the Caribbean to the big screen (a movie based on a theme park ride, in a genre that had not seen success in 50 years!) Their strategy was the same, they wrote their own story that borrowed elements from the game, but did not strictly follow it. The film stands alone, and does not require it's audience to be intimately familiar with the source material. The nods to the game throughout were great, but I was relieved that I was able to enjoy this film for what it was, rather than constantly looking for where it deviated from the games.This movie clearly was made for someone like me, and in my party of four, three of us, who were all guys, loved it. The fourth, who was the only woman in the group, was less than impressed, and complained that it was too much action. If you're expecting Citizen Kane, you stand to be disappointed, but if you expect this to be another video game adaptation, you are in for a real treat!
__label__9 Did you see Iron Man and Robin Hood? Yes? Well, this film is better, simply because the story is original. I know, I know, it is based on the computer game...which I used to play ages ago...but the story portrayed in the script is classic and refreshing at the same time; the performances are natural and the stunt scenes are unbelievable. Now, what did Iron Man 2 miss and this movie excels at? Plot, and a fast action pace without being over caffeinated big bang explosions (ever saw G.I. Joe?)Having said that, you must be warned, the dialogues are simple but not stupid and it does contain a fair amount of moral references.Sure everyone is crying out loud about the British accents... "ohh but Persians didn't speak English" yeah but this isn't The Passion of The Christ, or Apocalypto and Mel Gibson was nowhere near the production, Jake Gyllenhaal is an American, but the rest of the cast is British, makes sense they should all have a similar accent doesn't it?? So quit yer whining Overall a good wholesome fun summer movie. worth repeating!
__label__9 I didn't expect much from this movie, and wasn't planning on watching it after watching the trailer, which had somehow managed to butcher the action sequences which turned to be pretty good in the movie. It hardly depicted the movie for what it made out to be, so i'm more than glad that i did. At first glance Jake wouldn't be my first choice for the role of the prince as i didn't think he really looked the part, with his slightly goofy looking demeanor, but he made up for it as he certainly played the part(and thanks to the costume designer, dressed the part), coupled with a good body double the parkour wasn't far off either. There was good chemistry between the male and female leads, however, granted perhaps overplayed in less than idyllic moments for pda haha, which some might find cliché but hardly something to dwell on in this pretty awesome movie so its not as bad as other critics claim. It offers aesthetically pleasing graphics (as to be expected of the people who worked on the pirates of the Caribbean) and although deviated from the plot of the game, the important aspects blended well and made for an enjoyable, and not totally predictable storyline. Another epic jerry epic i say. I sincerely hope they make a sequel, especially if the the dark prince is involved in the storyline, that would be badass (magma cracks already showing on the prince's body during slow mo time travel scenes so fingers crossed)
__label__9 Prince of Persia was an immensely enjoyable movie. Below I list the positives and few negatives of the movie before summarising.Positives - What I liked about Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time~Its beautifulThe visuals in this movie are stunning. Everything from the cinematography of the desert landscapes to the city of Alamut and the beautiful sets are a real treat to look at.~The two leads are excellentThe chemistry between Gyllenhaal and Arterton is fantastic and they, like the visuals, are great to look at. Arterton is stunning as Princess Tamina and Gyllenhaal is as watchable as always. The supporting actors all do their jobs decently.~The fight choreography and parkourParkour is going to be the new big thing in movieland so I hear and its great to watch, really adding an exciting new element to the tried and tested swordfight ~The story wasn't actually totally predictableI haven't played the games so I didn't really know what I was in for with the plot, only that it involved some sands of time... Call me a moron but I actually found quite a lot of what happened in the movie very unpredictable and the ending of the movie for me was totally unexpected.Negatives- What could have been better~Historical inaccuracyI thought the movie was meant to be in Sassanid Persia (3rd-7th century AD) but the map at the beginning clearly showed Achaemenid Persia which was quite confusing so the inclusion of crossbows and the mention of the "Turkish" was quite out of place. The Mughuls are also mentioned which is out of place regardless since they Mughuls were Mongols... The movie does include a dagger which can turn back time so perhaps the whole point of moot but I don't feel some more research would have hurt.~Could have been funnierThe movie could have been a little funnier but the storyline moved at such a pace that there wasn't much chance for much hijinks. There were some funny lines in there however and as I mentioned before, the chemistry between Arteron and Gyllenhaal was very enjoyable##Conclusion##Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time is not the type of movie that comes along often. How often do you really get to see a beautifully shot film set in Ancient Persia featuring such good leads and original story? It was an enjoyable movie and a great movie in its own right I say, bring on the sequels - just don't mess them up like Pirates of the Caribbean.
__label__9 WOW,i just came back from the I-max cinema and this movie was so so good! Prince of Persia makes Pirates of the Caribbean look like a joke..I always loved the Prince of Persia games played the 2d ones and all the way up to two thrones, this movie had much resemblance to the game, but unlike other video game movies it wasn't trying to hard to show it off to the audience.Best video game movie without a doubt! I think the reason some people are rating this so low is because they are USED to rating video game movies so low as they have all failed up to now!This movie deserves a solid 7.5/10.Ill rate it 10 right now because I'm just so amazed of how much i enjoyed this movie.IF YOU GO INTO THE CINEMA TAKING THIS MOVIE SO SERIOUSLY YOU WILL BE DISAPPOINTED. This movie doesn't try to be what its not.It has amazing park-our,good romance, amazing action and fabulous special effects. I recommend this movie to everyone cause its truly awesome!
__label__9 Pacific Rim takes inspiration from the elements of any material that involves giant creatures and robots. It shows a simple concept about piloted robots, Jaegers, fighting against sea aliens, Kaijus. This idea alone would already make a fantastic blockbuster. The surprise we get is it features more than just endless explosions. There are plenty of innovations to root for which it can almost be a new popular classic. The only less intriguing parts however are the clichés that are too known in many big sci-fi action movies. Despite of that, it kept the promise of being gigantically awesome. It's not completely groundbreaking, but it's still quite an experience.Aside from the large scale battles, the film amazingly creates an innovating futuristic alternate universe. It tells the origins of the Kaijus and how the Jaegers work, shows what society and the media have become, and throw some satires of the genre. The exploration of the vision is so absorbing, it feels like you went to it as a trip. But what somewhat halts this from being larger than life is when it takes the generic elements of any typical blockbuster, like the hero's motivations, the main robot is somehow an underdog in one scene, there's an arrogant team member, sacrifices, and so on. It's hard to not notice them since they are the central points of the story. The intriguing stuff about the Jaegers and Kaijus still took over the experience. At least it embraces its own fantasy tastes without being "dark" and emo like today's blockbuster trend.Charlie Hunnam's performance is fitting to a graphic novel based movie, which is kind of appropriate as his role. In the battle scenes, he gives genuine human emotions as he punches and fall. Idris Elba remarkably brings heart to the picture while being awesome at the same time. Rinko Kikuchi makes her character more than just a partner of Raleigh. Charlie Day and Burn Gorman delightfully serves more energy to the story, while Ron Perlman appears in a short screen time but satisfying enough.Now the real highlight of the picture, the visuals are overall shiny and snazzy. The designs of the creatures and robots are palpably marvelous. As the special effects move these heavy giants, the action did something better than just blowing up stuff. Although explosions and loud noises are not actually flaws(It's about giant robots, c'mon!), but a real good set piece needs a decent and genuine fortitude. In the midst of the noises, you will always get the sense of danger to the Jaegers, mostly because there are human pilots beneath the ravaging machines. It effectively made those sequences electrifying and the monsters terrifying than you would expect.Pacific Rim will have its own fans. It feels like a self-indulged blockbuster that people will end up loving. Besides, this film is said to be Guillermo del Toro's dream come true coming from his childhood. And seeing all that, there's plenty of things to explore and to be intrigued. If only the plot can break some points from the mainstream storytelling, it would have been less predictable and much extraordinary. But physically, it is extraordinary. It's both big and eye candy which is the snazziest merit you will see. Also in the action scenes where it's more into the thrills than the fireworks, because it's all about iron fists hitting on monsters' face. Again, the story may be familiar, but the setting and the action keeps everything looks fresh and amazing.
__label__9 Having watched this film I think Michael Bay definitely learnt from the mistake he made in ROTF. He cut out all of the stupid comedy e.g the twins.He also made the overall plot a hell of a lot better, the way they linked in the moon landing to Transformers was fantastic I thought, and additionally the old footage they used was clever.The action scenes were pumped up so much more, and I felt genuine sorrow when IronHide died, and BumbleBee was going to be executed. The background music composed by Steve Jablonsky was fantastic and never so more appreciated during the car chase scene when they are tyring to protect Sentinel.People will criticise because it is a typical Hollywood block buster but if you want pure escapism then watch the film
__label__9 Now Transformers Dark Of The Moon, is something that you like or hate, Me, i love it. Now, i see why people hate Transformers 2, but i like it, it's not perfect, but i had fun with the movie, a solid 8/10. So what did this movie did right and wrong in my opinion. Let's take a look, shall we?Pros -Best Acting -Best Action -Has a surprising depth of emotion if you look hard enough -I enjoy Rosie Huntington-Whiteley as Carly, more than Meagen Fox -Most Epic -The humor is cheesy, but so is the original Freddy Kurger, and i have not met anyone who hates him. I like the humor. -Best story Cons -I like the ending, but a little too abrupt, and that what can set a balance from a perfect score, or a near perfect score.Overall: It depends on your expectations, but i love this film. It's the best of the 3 movies in my opinion. This is a movie that you need to see for yourself.Finalll Verdict:9/10 Outstanding
__label__9 Just been to see it at the odeon in Liverpool switch island in 3d, wow fantastic movie, i need to see it again to take it all in, full of action and a far better story that the previous one although i liked the second one, i was somewhat sad at the end to see a lot of decepticons killed off, but we all know they can be brought back to life. Don't miss this in 3d its one of the best i have seen so far.its got lots of laughs and a few new autobots, although a lot of people did not like the twins in the last movie, i felt they should of been included in this one even if it was a small appearance.Lets hope they don't stop there and bring us more of the transformers.
__label__9 I hardly ever have revelations or opinions about a movie until I see it through and reach the end. I found myself dissecting this movie while I was watching it, and I didn't really know why. Raiders was one of the first movies I remember seeing and loving and I desperately wanted Kingdom of the Crystal Skull to be something really special. Well mid way through the film I decided I was disappointed with this movie. Here I was going to a midnight show for one of my boyhood heroes and I was treated to another lackluster David Koepp script. The story didn't make much sense, the Russians were predictable villains, and Indy surviving a nuclear blast...Then before I decided I hated it, I thought to myself about what Indiana Jones was really supposed to be, the modern day Buck Rogers serial brought to life. When you think hard none of the other Indiana Jones films had overly outstanding dialogue or stories that made you think. What made the other Indiana Jones films great was the execution of the material and Crystal Skull is able to succeed in this regard as well. I liked Raiders and Last Crusade a great deal because Indy was looking for biblical larger than life artifacts, and I had some trouble digesting the notion of extra terrestrials but not too much trouble because Spielberg is very careful to make sure that the aliens are not presented in an overly over the top way. They are very similar to his aliens from Close Encounters in the fact that they mean peace and try to bring advancement to the civilians.I was a little hesitant towards the idea of having the Soviets as villains. I just thought it was too predictable after using the Nazis twice and because the Soviets really didn't represent the mythical evil that the Nazis did. However Spielberg does touch upon something clever in the beginning of the film, Indy is fired from his university and during a high speed motorcycle chase they pass through anti-soviet propaganda. The idea of having Irina Spalko see only a weapon out of the artifacts skims across the surface of some commentary. I kind of wished they would have played more with that but then again Indiana Jones has never truly been a political commentary, even when he was fighting the Nazis it wasn't, and Spielberg is passionate about spreading Holocaust awareness. Steve if your reading this a Cold War film isn't a bad idea...Film goers rest assured, Harrison Ford fits back into the fedora like he never took it off. He is Indy and that is really the only fair way to describe it. This is probably the one character in film lure that I would only want one actor playing. The catch phrases still have bite and that trademark adventurous and bold attitude is still very much alive in Dr. Jones. However Indy has grown a lot between films. Spielberg shows Indy has been through some changes and we get a feel of what he has been up to in his twenty year absence. I wanted to know what happened to Indy, I just didn't want him to show up with no explanation. We get glimpses into his time during WWII and his on-off again relationship with Marion Ravenwood("Huge Spoiler" Shia Labeouf is the new Junior). Brining back Marion was a smart move in my opinion. It'd be far too easy to just throw him another girlfriend to make love to and toss away like James Bond but bringing back Marion proves that Indy is a human as well as a superhero.The special effects were decent but they were also cartoon at times. Spielberg tries very hard to use the authentic stunt work that made us love the action scenes in the other Indy films but he also wants to mix in CGI. I would rather he stick with one course of story telling over the other because mixing them made some of the scenes appear silly and it lead to choppy transitions. By no means is this a huge problem but it is noticeable.The grown-up brain in me probably doesn't want to recommend this film but my heart and my inner child were swept away by John William's Raiders March again...
__label__9 When it comes to reviewing a movie like Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, the hardest thing to do is to keep expectations intact and not expect a film that will blow Raiders of the Lost Ark out of the water. It has no chance to beat that expectation, and the film will ultimately become a failure with that mindset. You have to look at this film as another one of the sequels, which isn't a knock at the The Temple of Doom and The Last Crusade; on the contrary, they're great films, but this is the caliber you should expect from the fourth installment of a film that hasn't seen a new addition to the franchise since 1989.With this in mind, does the fourth Indiana Jones film succeed? The answer? An incredibly enthusiastic yes! After 19 years away, Steven Spielberg, George Lucas, and Harrison Ford have recaptured that magic that has made the Indy trilogy so successful and added a worthy sequel that stands right in line with the two sequels. The little Indy quirks are here: the Paramount logo fading into a mountain-like object in the background, Jones's insane phobia of snakes, the flight paths on the background maps, and the numerous references to the first three films. However, and give George Lucas and screenwriter David Koepp a ton of credit for this, the film is not simply a tribute to the first three films, but an intriguing, fresh story that is unlike any of the other three. This isn't Rocky Balboa where we have the same general story but given a new spin on it. While some fans will be upset about the departure from the familiar, biblical territory the first ones covered, I found it to be great to see a new, original Indy flick instead of a rehashed homage to themes previously seen.Spielberg seems to have found that pitch perfect balance between action, humor, and humanity that made Raiders so special. This isn't a flat out comedy like Last Crusade seemingly was, though there is still plenty of humorous moments in this film (surprisingly, very few jokes and gags actually fall flat). This isn't two hours of non-stop action, as the film does take its time to establish the plot, detail the archaeological quests, and let us remember why we fell in love with these characters in the first place. In fact, the scenes with Marion Ravenwood and Indy together are gold. Don't get me wrong; a lot of the action is a blast. The car chase scene in the jungle is a great piece of film-making, and the first scene with Mutt Williams and Indy leave a lasting impression. Great action doesn't have to come in newer, advanced looking CGI extravaganzas, as Spielberg proves that traditional action set pieces are still the most entertaining kind there is.Now, about the cast. The star is aging, the sidekick is from Even Stevens, Karen Allen hasn't been in a big movie in God knows how many years, and, for some reason, people were worried about Cate Blanchett in here role. Well, let me put the concerns to rest: the entire cast is established pitch-perfect chemistry and everybody plays their parts incredibly well. Harrison Ford is, for the first time in a decade, having the time of his life and it shows in his excellent return to the famed American icon. It's no secret that he has been campaigning for this movie for years, and it shows in his strong performance. Karen Allen shares fantastic chemistry with both Shia LaBeouf and Ford, as she provides a lot of the necessary charm to the second act of the film. Blanchett uses a heavily over-the-top Russian accent, but she finds just the right note between creepy and intriguing to make her the best Indy villain since Belloq in Raiders. Ray Winstone does well enough in his role, as does John Hurt and Jim Broadbent.The major surprise, however, is indeed Shia LaBeouf. For some strange reason, people actually thought this guy would be the Jar Jar Binks of the Indy series, and they couldn't be more wrong. Remember the outstanding chemistry between Sean Connery and Ford in The Last Crusade? The chemistry between LaBeouf and Ford rivals that. I've believe that he's been a very good actor for the past few years (and one of the few redeeming factors of Transformers). He does a great job in this film. The entire cast is good.A strong story and great performances don't imply that this film isn't flawless. It isn't, but the flaws are few-and-far between and didn't hinder my overall enjoyment of the film. The first 20 minutes are somewhat slow; it takes a little while to get to Marshall College. These first twenty minute aren't necessarily boring; it is still entertaining, but it could have used probably 5 minutes of edits and pacing corrections. This is my biggest problem with the film, and once Indy returns to Marshall College, the film really kicks off and turns into the roller coaster ride that everyone has been hoping for.So, as you can see, I dug the film. I may have even loved it (repeat viewings should ensure this). It is the Indy film that you've been waiting for since it was announced, and the creative trio have proved that, with the right care and intentions, you can bring an American icon back from the dead and still have him own the competition. Rip-offs like The DaVinci Code and the National Treasure series try to be like these films, but even the fourth installment of these wonderful franchise just towers over its impersonators. This film will go down as a very strong entry into the quartet and fall somewhere in the middle of the two sequels when all is said and done. The Indy film that you've been dreading? Not even close.Indiana Jones is back.
__label__9 Another win for Disney Pixar. My 3&5 year old boys loved Arlo and spot. We prefaced this movie with The Land Before Time. My children were fully aware that when the first man evolved that it was a dangerous and scary place. It still is,just the predators are people mostly. I guess they aren't as sheltered as some of the other reviewers children. We laughed when they ate the hallucinogenic berries, and cried together when spot was reunited with his family.The art was absolutely spectacular and awe inspiring. All in all it is better than Planes and a little bit less than Wreck it Ralph.We have purchased it on Blu Ray to watch again and again
__label__9 I am a trekkie who has watched everything Star Trek related from the past 50 years including every film and TV show. Although I've enjoyed the rebooted films, they never quite had the same magic as the originals. Until Star Trek Beyond, that is! Star Trek Beyond is the third installment in what is being called the "Kelvin timeline" of Star Trek with the rebooted universe of Kirk's storyline. Compared to Star Trek 2009 and "Into Darkness", this film felt astronomically more like a Star Trek film. I was absolutely blown away; what I thought was going to be a mindless, action-oriented Star Trek movie, was actually a brilliantly written and directed Star Trek film that felt more than fitting in the Star Trek universe.The spoiler-free storyline; the Enterprise is sent to investigate the disappearance of an alien race's crew in a nebula. The Enterprise (per the trailers...) ends up getting destroyed and the crew held hostage on an alien world that is used as a "booby trap" for countless other species that have also been tricked into exploring the nebula in one way or another. Throughout the story, we are not only introduced to new alien races, but also are introduced to past elements of Star Trek, included a desolate/abandoned NX-class starship! This film pays enormous tribute to not only "Star Trek Enterprise" and it's story-arch, but other Star Trek films/shows as well. For the die- hard trekkies, there is plenty to think and talk about after seeing the movie, as there are tons of references and connections made to the rest of the Star Trek universe (including ancestors of Star Trek characters seen in later series...).Furthermore, the movies makes a touching tribute to the death of Leonard Nimoy, by announcing the death of Spock Prime. It was done in a very tasteful and respectful way, and I believe most trekkies and die-hard fans would agree that it was only fitting to announce the death of his character in the film. Simon Pegg and the new director did a phenomenal job on this film. It felt so much more like a Star Trek film, at least to me, than the previous ones. The storyline was much more original than the retelling of the "wrath of Khan" events. Chris Pine is also really starting to hone-in on his role of Captain Kirk. Not only was the acting better, but the script this time around made him much more into the masterful Captain Kirk we grew up with in TOS and less of a party-boy. Overall, Star Trek Beyond fantastic Star Trek film. I can't believe I am endorsing and praising it as much as I am, but in my opinion, they got it right this time. After seeing this, I am starting to have more faith/confidence in the new cast continuing the Star Trek legacy and I look forward to the new films that come out in the series. If you're an old-school fan, give this one a try. It's a fun adventure and feels appropriate in the Star Trek universe.
__label__9 Pixar has produced some of the best animation in the past decade with its computer-generated features (Toy Story, Monsters Inc., and Finding Nemo) that have been marked by strong story lines and vivid characters. The tradition continues in an impressive way with Wall-E. This deceptively simple tale is transformed by the emotional content told almost entirely through visuals. A polluted Earth has become uninhabitable for 700 years, and one of its only residents is Wall-E, a small robot whose solitary mission is to be a mobile, trash compactor. In his work, he also finds and collects trivial, odd artifacts of mankind's past such as a Rubik's cube. He comforts himself with an old video, Hello Dolly, and as he learns about humans and his yearning for love, it becomes his idyllic vision of happiness amid an insulated, dull existence. Along his travels, he comes across a unique find, a live plant! One day a spaceship lands and deposits a robot probe. Fascinated by this kindred machine, Wall-E follows and eventually befriends this unit known as Eve. Eve has a directive that will hopefully return humans to Earth if only it can sustain life, and Wall-E's plant figures immeasurably. Eve is returned to her mother ship with Wall-E frantically chasing after his newly found love. On a spaceship acting as a living city for its machine-dependent, overweight humans, little robots are not only the caregivers, but in control. Wall-E and Eve must figure a way to return the humans to earth and find happiness even if it means making the ultimate sacrifice.Wall-E's innocence and childlike wonder (think E.T.), as exemplified by how he introduces himself to everyone he meets, could almost have sprung from Steven Spielberg's imagination. It's in the small details that enrich Wall-E as a character. He brings to mind an amalgam of past robots like Star Wars' R2-D2 and the little robots in Silent Running, and his fears and joys are expressed through body language and squeals. When he shuts down each night to sleep, he rocks himself as a child would. He is clumsy around Eve, and when he takes her to his makeshift home of robot parts and paraphernalia, he is like a little kid. Ironically, he is the catalyst to bring the humans back home. Writer and director, Andrew Stanton (Finding Nemo), takes a huge risk by basing the film's premise almost entirely on a song from Hello Dolly. I can't think of an animated film that relied so much on visual storytelling. Even Fantasia and Allegro Non Troppo were collections of musical sequences not narrative features. In a way, this film is almost too sophisticated in its display and execution for little kids but is just right for adults. Remarkably, this is a tale with nary a spoken word by the principals. One has to think of silent films to approach this achievement. The operative word here is pathos like the best of Charlie Chaplin's little tramp and, amazingly, this film earns its stripes by emoting body language, action, and sound effects. Yet most of the characters aren't even human! Fred Willard has an amusing small role as the corporate president. Sigourney Weaver, as the ship's computer voice, is an inspired choice since, like Eve, she was a female hero (in the Alien movies) and had to deal with computer voices in those films. The animation is almost 3-D in its rich detail and simulated, fluid camera-work. The interior of the mother ship, the Axiom, is a futuristic view of a commercialized (think Blade Runner) city in space. Yes, it is a thinly veiled message for all those 'save the earth' and 'think green' people, but that never detracts from the main theme of saving humanity amid a touching love story. There are moments when you think a scene could have played out a bit better, but that is minor. It is likely that Wall-E's reputation will grow over time as a shining example of stretching the art form by challenging and trusting its audience. Bravo to the folks at Pixar for taking a chance and for entertaining and moving us.
__label__9 When it comes to animated films, Pixar are masters of the craft. Ever since their feature film debut, the magnificent 'Toy Story', the animation studio have brought us such instant classics as 'Monsters Inc.', 'The Incredibles' and 'Finding Nemo', a film which remains as one of the biggest selling DVDs of all time. Surely it's about time that they delivered us a bad film? Well, sorry to disappoint, but Pixar's 'WALL-E' is among not only their greatest work, but among the greatest animations ever produced.The film opens with some astonishing shots of a desolate, rubbish-laden, polluted Earth; a boldly dark opening for a family oriented feature. It is amidst these dystopian surroundings, however, that our hero - arguably more adorable than a basket full of puppies and kittens - is first introduced to us. WALL-E is a character of genius; combining elements of Johnny 5, Charlie Chaplin and Mr. Bean, Andrew Stanton (Director) and crew have created something that will no doubt go down in history with R2-D2 as one as the screen's most memorable machines.It is the 22nd Century, and mankind have left Earth in giant Space Cruisers waiting for the surface of their planet to finally become habitable again. 700 years have past, and WALL-E (Waste Allocation Load Lifter Earth-Class), is the last of a group of robots left to clean up the planet. In a disturbing sequence, our hero ventures home through trash heaps laden with 'dead' WALL-E's... another sign that this is not the usually Pixar fare, but something more meaningful, more bold, more... adult in theme. And this is what the first act of the film is. WALL-E, accompanied by his pet cockroach (who, as a testament to Pixar's genius, we grow to care for just as much as the metal man himself), goes about his daily routine. It is in this mostly silent section of the film that we grow to love WALL-E. As he rumages through human garbage, finding interest in things that seem mundane to us, we discover that after all these years, this little robot has developed something that makes him seem more to us than an animated clunk of cogs and rust... a personality. His incredibly curious nature make for some of the most adorable moments depicted in film (including moments such as WALL-E meets car keys and WALL-E meets... bra). We delve further into this intriguing personality when we invited into the little guy's 'house', a storage space for all his collected junk. Whilst WALL-E watches a VCR of the musical 'Hello, Dolly!", we see from his large, emotional eyes and clasping hands that he is, heartbreakingly, all alone on this immense world.Then, the following day, as WALL-E goes about his trash-cube-making business, something extraordinary, both to us and WALL-E, occurs. A space ship touches down on the surface, holding within it EVE, a futuristic, Ipod-resembling droid here to scout the earth for plant-life... and WALL-E's one true love (aww).This love story eventually leaps from Earth into space and onto The Axiom, an immense Space Ship on which a large number of the American population - depicted as lazy, obese, consumerist slobs - go about the same mundane routine day in, day out. Message heavy, but never preachy. In the end, through WALL-E, everyone learns the true meanings of life: Love and the relationships with those around us. Oh, and to take care of the planet, of course.Beautiful visuals, astonishing characterisation and a sequence with WALL-E and EVE floating through space that is more romantic than anything your likely to see this year, make 'WALL-E' an outstanding achievement that proudly stands among Pixar's finest work. WALL-E is a completely realised character, and one which I am sure we have not seen the last of. Although, some would argue, not as accessible as other films in the genre (some children may grow resteless during the film's earlier, dialogue-free sequences), 'WALL-E' will leave a lasting impression on cinema goers of all ages.And that is the genius of Pixar. The only studio ever to create films that are, truly, 'for all the family'. -Dan Henry, 20th July 2008
__label__9 I join the gushing majority and say this is one amazingly done, very touching and important film. 1. A Masterpiece of Computer Graphics & Story TellingWhen computers were still in training pants 25 years ago, I studied, worked with and taught computer graphics. I've often watched an animated film (or live film with injected animation) with knowing appreciation at some use of or advance in computer graphics technology. I have a friend who had been involved managing computer graphics projects for some of the previous Star Wars movies. We have previously discussed the "state of the art" and where it's going. The surprise to me in this film wasn't that they could do graphics of this quality now. It was amazement at the scope, effort, skill and creative genius I know it takes to make something so beautiful and moving.Watching the film, my feelings went from astonishment at the graphics to deep empathy and feeling for the main characters. The people around me gasped and say "wow" just the same. You don't need experience or friends like mine to tell you that nothing else has come this close to looking so real and gorgeous, to feel so visceral and well-crafted. The use of modern live-action cinematic effects is stunning beyond words. The film's reliance on the intelligence of children and adults to understand the serious thoughts and complex emotions being conveyed, well, is just simply an amazing and reassuring experience. And I thought the closing credit art (using different styles of famous artists) was very cool too.2. Some Small Nitpicks: Most of the time I felt I was watching an exceptionally crafted film with a tight story and a serious message about the current problems of and future prospects for Earth. An then something would happen in the film that would be, like, "Huh? That doesn't quite make sense or follow, but it's just animation". I found 2-3 moments where I was shifted from sobering reality to forgivable fantasy, and it was a bit jarring and distracting But these moments can be easily forgotten with the continuation of the next amazing scene.It looks like the quality (time, money, computer horse-power)spent on the main characters is much more than what was spent on depicting the humans. Heck, even the garbage get's more realistic treatment than the people. And then there is the live video of Scott Willard as the "Executive in Chief" talking to the planet....The styles don't mesh well for me. I appreciate the thought-line that the humans look more cartoon because of the surreal and clueless nature of their existence on the ship, as well as our inept and greedy custodianship of the planet. I can imagine that the live video is meant to help connect children with the cartoon-nature of certain government officials and the patronizing policies they always on display these days on the evening news. Maybe this is all true, but it's probably also a way to rationalize a limited budget and time schedule. The bottom-line for me that the discrepancies between the treatments didn't work that well for me.Most of the time the characters are so extremely cute and lovable, it's a complement to their creators. But sometimes the cultural cliché's and visual slapstick are a bit much. Overall, it all adds up to a very sweet and moving film, but just a little less "shtick" would have been fine by me.Some thoughts on other reviews I've read here:Is the Message Too Heavy-Handed? I don't think so. It's mainly aimed at small kids. They get it, and they take it to heart. Maybe the question should be "is the message loud enough?" We earthlings still don't seem to be getting the message. Last I checked, we were still busy polluting the air, water, soil and every life form on the planet...oh, and ruining our climate also. We are feeding our families and enjoying ourselves, but sorry we are each helping to destroy the planet along the way. "Oh well. It's not like I can make a difference". Let's just leave the problem for the kids. Good luck kids! Do you think mom and dad are making "good choices?"It's a moment of truth for us. Are we up to it? Are we truly awake yet and smelling the rising levels of toxicity in our environment? Maybe the message was said softer people would get it more?Regarding those people who have posted negatively, that they couldn't connect, and even thought of walking out...everyone is absolutely entitled to their opinion and to state it. But, gosh, If this film didn't make them gasp at beauty, smile warmly, laugh knowingly...if it didn't put a lump in your throat or make an eye or two teary, then...that's just sad, and even a bit scary.If you haven't seen this film yet, run and see it on the big screen while you can. I think you will enjoy taking some kids. You will see them enthralled and fully-attuned to the message. It's a good thing.
__label__9 Robert Zemeckis, the main pioneer of Motion capture films with films such as The Polar Express, Monster House and Beowulf attempts a new version of a story that has been many times before and needless to say it doesn't disappoint. Jim Carrey is a revelation as Scrooge and the three Ghosts but his performance is so good that each has its own personality, Bob Hoskins and Colin Firth are very good as Crachit and Fred. The 3D in the film is stunning and Zemeckis uses to a great degree but it's never a gimmick. It is a faithful adaptation of the story but it's not for young children and several scenes were quite dark and scary which actually added to the film and it's not as heartwarming as previous versions but the happy ending remains. If there is one or criticisms is that some scenes went on a bit too long and some characters were not as well animated and suffered from dead eye.Overall, a great Christmas film and it does show the potential of motion capture and if they continue to improve it then it's going a great tool for filmmakers.
__label__9 Hi there fellow geeks, greekgeek speaking!I just saw a press screening of A Christmas CAROL here in Hamburg, Germany.First things first: I'm a biiiiiig Zemeckis Fan from 1984 (ROMANCING THE STONE) and "all the time through"! This means: even the trashed movies by fanboys like THE POLAR EXPRESS and BEOWULF.I just can't listen anymore to all of those complaints about his "performance capture" films. They always type the same boring stuff – my advise: don't go to these "dreadful" Films.I was never a big fan of THE POLAR EXPRESS (love Alan Silvestri's Score) but I'm still a big supporter of the project. BEOWULF was much stronger and A Christmas CAROL tops all of that.Jim Carrey's performance is stellar! He is this movie. Colin Firth and Gary Oldman are not even really supporting actors but Carrey runs the show. His Scrooge (especially the present day one) is the best thing "performance capture" ever put "on film".The film is fast-paced (good 90 minutes long) and very spooky (for a PG Film). It starts off with soft goose bumps with the Ghost-of-Christmas-Past, goes surreal with the Ghost-of-Christmas-Present and switches to FRIGHTENERS-Territory with Ghost-of-Christmas-Yet-to-Come.So, was the Film any good: yes, perfect storytelling with perfect look – either you like good storytelling – then go see and love it, or you don't – then start bitchin' about "performance capture" all day long. I myself can't wait for YELLOW SUBMARINE and the next ROGER RABBIT! (or even productions like MARS NEEDS MOMS, AIRMAN and STONEHEART)Oh, one thing I forgot: In front of A Christmas CAROL they showed the Trailer for PRINCE OF PERSIA: THE SANDS OF TIME. Fantastic!!! They managed to bring all the jumps and moves of the Prince to life. Can't wait!This was just not even a real review; I just wanted to let you know that it is a great film. If I have time I will write more.
__label__9 A Christmas Carol by Robert Zemeckis is a breathtaking cinematic experience and attests that he's one of the hardly any who knows how to be proactive with the stereoscopic illusion of depth perception, the growing popularity of which in mainstream cinema is yielding an unprecedented amount of 3-D releases. Not only is A Christmas Carol one of the biggest of those, it's also entirely comprised of recordings of the actions of human actors to animate digital character models so it can be a CGI film. This is extremely expensive technology that adds nothing of value to the movie-going experience when for 100 years we've been mesmerized and moved by two-dimensional movies that with organic talent have provided more than enough psychological illusion for three-dimensional reality. But Zemeckis is either uninterested in its use as a gimmick or he is but is equally or more interested in using it as a storytelling enhancement.Animation affords the liberty to show anything, and Zemeckis, who still knows the value of occasionally quieting things down for a bit of tension or a precisely timed joke, utilizes it. Intermittently, he even looks to be suggesting the spirit of iconic surrealists, as in a remarkable sequence where all the furniture vanishes and a soaring grandfather clock intimidates Scrooge and a floor inclines into an indistinct viewpoint. And it all brings Dickensian details to such sumptuous life. The heart of the story is there, and Zemeckis honors and respects it.Can you argue performances in characters so much compiled by council? Actually, yes. I see now that there does not have to be anything lost in an actor's inimitable gestures or reactions through this process. Especially in the expository scenes, which are as perfectly paced and delicately directed as any of the best of the 2009 movie year, performances are quite incredibly real and surprisingly natural. Also, needless to say, Carrey goes into overdrive as not just Scrooge but all three of the Christmas ghosts. Gary Oldman voices Bob Cratchett, Marley and Tiny Tim, and is less recognizable than he was in Hannibal, through no more or less fault than the elaborate make-up job of that film.The Dickens story stays ageless, and if it's electrified here with a milestone opening credits sequence comprised of a single swooping shot soaring through the bustling winter macro- and microcosmic goings-on of London, well, once you allow poltergeists into a movie, there's opportunity for everything, most importantly letting the story itself shine through where it naturally does.Said phantoms are not news. What makes this a masterpiece of film direction, pacing and spectacle is the fantastical visual expression of the film, the sobering and well-thought-out segue from Present to Future, the swooping flights through London and amplifying the utter ethereal strangeness of the ghosts, all of which feel faithful to the character of Dickens. Here his protagonist is a stunningly real exaggeration: Ebenezer Scrooge, never more skeletal, never more hunched, never more acidic.Zemeckis sets these characters in a London that coils and distends its setting to display the chilling atmosphere. Scrooge's living room is precisely as constricted, angular and vertical as he is. The home of his nephew Fred, on the contrary, is as broad and welcoming as Fred's character.I stay dubious that 3-D's gimmicky return characterizes the next generation of movies, though it says something that Zemeckis' 3-D features have grappled interest from me. Yes, Zemeckis does throw in a few gratuitous moments where things are flying at your face, but he ultimately uses enough self-discipline to guarantee the stereoscopy doesn't engulf your wits or detract from Dickens' reductive but rousing story about greed and redemption. It's too enriched by effective details from second to second to write off. But let me also note that my experience of this film was one of home entertainment. Yes, 2-D, and yet I was still thoroughly caught up in another world, as they say, sincerely and genuinely, without the troublesome dimness of the polarized-light technology using only half the light for each eye, closer people and things blocking further ones, the further ones color-depleted and obscure in relation to nearer ones anyway, and so on.But I stand by what I said. There are films of this format that are not simply exploiting the public's fleeting fascination with the product, but---not in a way necessary to achieve that intention, but a fun one to tackle every so often---keen to surround us with every fine distinction and trace of a story's world. Even the score by Alan Silvestri steals some traditional Christmas carols, but you have to listen in for them when their distinguishing tones become menacing throughout a death-defying journey through London, or sulking when Cratchett breaks the bad news about Tiny Tim, or elated when Christmas dinner is served. Ultimately, A Christmas Carol, despite being exquisitely crafted, has the one feature adults expect in a family movie: It's engaging for them, too.
__label__9 Jupiter Ascending is a great movie. You have to see it at least twice to get an understanding of the story line as it is so fast flowing. There is a lot involved and there are underlying plots that still need to be discovered. the action and special effects are very good but the story needs to be expanded further. It has a rich universe, a mixture of Dune and Dorsai. There is a lot that would be missed if you only watch it once. I feel this movie has been underrated by some as they do not understand it in full as the richness and the concept is refreshing, similar to how Riddick was at first. I sincerely hope that they explore and flesh out the universe and the story further.
__label__9 I think it is so unfair the amount of negative reviews I saw on here about this movie. No wonder the low rating which is unwarranted. I can't imagine how many people will miss out on such a good movie because of these misleading reviews. I tried to see what was so bad about this entertaining film and frankly speaking I could not.The story is unique and perfect. The visual effects absolutely stunning. Lots of effort was made in the making this film. I could definitely watch it for a third time as I have already watched it twice in the past five days. If you are into Sci-Fi movies and good action this is a must see!!! Please don't miss out due to other peoples thoughts.
__label__9 One reviewer claimed its story could have been written by "a ten year old girl on drugs". Well I've met some ten year old girls with astonishing imaginations, so I'm not sure that that's much of a criticism. True, if you're looking for deep this ain't it, but the same could be said for "The Matrix", not to mention just about every video game ever made. Then of course there's "Star Wars" which 10 year-old (and those who think like them) find deeply profound and meaningful.Purely as escapist entertainment, "Jupiter Ascending" is awesome. Mila Kunis is superb. A week after watching it I still can't get it out of my mind. I plan to buy a copy of the DVD so I can watch it again.
__label__9 I wasn't sure what to expect with Tarzan. I thought it might be cheesy or the special effects would look ridiculous, but surprisingly a majority of the time, it looked really good! Do you have to suspend disbelief sometimes? Absolutely. But it's a story about a man who controls jungle animals and swings from vines, so its going to look unbelievable at points. However, I found a good chunk (about 85% IMO) relied on realistic scenery, makeup and special effects. I mean... they're not going to use real gorillas or lions with the actors, but the CGI ones looked really good and will have you mesmerized by the detail. Personally found the movie very enjoyable, action packed and beautiful to watch. The director and actors did a phenomenal job. I found myself glued to the screen for a majority of the film.
__label__9 What a fabulous movie! I just saw a screening of it (with a bunch of other actors and writers) and the whole place burst into applause at the end.Tilda Swinton is amazing as the White Witch. Her cold, evil gaze could freeze anyone.I loved the kids - especially the little Georgie Henley, who played Lucy. Liam Neeson as the voice of Aslan was suitably majestic and comforting and grand.It was beautifully filmed, and I felt Narnia was perfectly realized.Looking forward to the movies that will follow.
__label__9 I was fortunate enough to attend an advanced screening and was magnificently surprised. The film was beautifully made. The acting/voices were all wonderful, including the young talent. I think all ages will be entertained. The story contains important lessons for children, but also relevant reminders for adults. I also think attempts to compare the film to Lord of the Rings and/or Harry Potter would be unfortunate for all parties. They are each uniquely wonderful. Make sure you see this!By the way, make sure you stay through the end credits to hear a beautiful song Alanis Morisette wrote especially for the film.
__label__9 -Exciting, breathtaking, magical. Not even words can describe this movie. Narnia will make you want to jump! These years best movie is surly the most wanted. Narnia is so fantastic it will make you want to see it again and again. -I thought that the movie was marvelous. There were a few surprising moments in the movie. For some people the movie was sad for some it was happy. For me it was in-between. I thought that when Lucy first found the wardrobe and they didn't believe her it was sad. But when Aslan came and made Peter a knight of Narnia it was very happy moment. -It's joyful, heart warming and completely brilliant. The Chronicles of Narnia, The Lion, The witch, and The Wardrobe was a hit. The movie everyone wants to see and I am sure you do too. Why? Because this movie is worth it. It was unbelievable to watch. I even read the book and you can find out that the book was just as good as watching the movie because they are both great. However, the book may be more educational. So the movie and the book were a success and we are lucky to have C.S.Lewis that wrote the book. In the movie there were many fantasy and reality things. There ere fauns and beavers that could speak, but I am not going to tell you everything so now it is up to you to read the book and watch the movie, to see and imagine the Chronicles of Narnia. -Have you been looking for a phenomenal movie to watch lately? Well, you're just going to have to watch the chronicles of Narnia the lion the witch and the wardrobe. This is an eye catching movie with varieties of different outstanding events. If you're a person that likes fantasy this is your type of movie. Don t hesitate just go and have a merriment time. Enjoy!!! -140 minutes of passion, excitement, and sadness. It made me grieve in some parts of the movie. It also thrilled me in parts, my heart pumped with light making me want to weep of happiness. It was just like a machine, the machine's purpose was to emotion change. Tears of sorrow swept down my face while watching the death of a whole slew! A ferocious lion goes at it with a witch. No ordinary spell casting witch, a fierce, selfish, hideous, wicked, and a hex witch. So you can sit back watch the movie and try not to soak your face with tears. Also you might be surprised where the tricky cliff can take you.-The door was opened through the two worlds Narnia and our world, but at what consequence to the pevency family. Four children enter Narnia while hiding in the wardrobe from the house keeper that gives tours of the Professor's house. They enter Narnia as a family and leave as legendary HEROES! While in Narnia they defeat the evil witch that rules Narnia and get dubbed King and Queens! This adventure has so many thrilling parts it be impossible to put them all on one page. Out of ten I give this movie nine! NO movie will top this one for months and months.-On Friday December9 2005 Kameyosek school grade 5/6 class went to go see the movie, The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe, at Cineplex Odeon theatres in South Edmonton Common. My grade 5/6 class went to see the movie because we read the book and studied a lot about The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe. I thought the movie and the book were both excellent. The movie really pulled me in and wanted me to watch more and more. My favorite part of the movie was the big battle when everybody fought and the scariest part was when Edmund found the Witch and he stepped over Maugrim. I stood up and made a loud noise and every body in the theatres screamed. The saddest part was probably when Aslan died. I did not know what was going to happen. I was felling very depressed when Aslan was killed. I was thrilled at the end of the movie. When Edmund did not go with the witch. Instead Edmund stayed with his family. When Edmund snapped the witches wand that was probably the most heroic thing Edmund ever did in the movie and the novel. The lion, the witch, and the wardrobe movie and novel were very entertaining. I would give it a 9 out of 10 rating. And I would recommend it to everybody who likes action and adventurous movies. The lion, the witch and the wardrobe was very exciting so go see it or go read it.
__label__9 X-Men: Apocalypse is absolutely amazing! The early reviewers don't seem to understand these characters and they don't understand this film. It sets a new precedent for comic book films in a world over-saturated with adaptations.The film hits every nostalgic and aesthetic beat it's supposed to without devolving into pure fan service. The writing is great. The allegory the mutant plight is for civil rights is given its due screen time. The characterization of the superheroes goes beyond their powers and outfits and at least touches the heart of who they are as people. Its main fault is juggling so many characters and so some of the acting comes off as stilted at times. In a way this is also its strength, because it manages to tell a coherent and compelling narrative with a large ensemble cast of characters, emulating the source material faithfully. It is a comic book fan's film.The action scenes are epic in scope, with stakes so high you'll be on the edge of your seat with you eyes transfixed on the action, yet never does the pacing sacrifice plot or character development for obligatory spectacle. Everything is purposefully sensational.As someone who was born in the 80s and experienced these characters' evolution through popular culture onto the big screen, I can say that X-Men: Apocalypse brings the flavor of the comics and the 90s TV show to the big screen in a way that children of the 80s and 90s love.
__label__9 First I'd controversially like to point out that this movie wouldn't have gotten as much hype as it did if it wasn't for Heath Ledgers death before the release and the Academy not being afraid to give an Oscar to a corpse.
Nevertheless his performance is easily the best one in the superhero genre and the crafty, well put together New York accent confirms he put a lot of dedication and effort into his methodical role and deserved what he got (an Oscar). This isn't just another Batman movie anymore. Yes, there is action, explosions and stunt work but between that is masterfully crafted dialogue that dwells deep. 
Batman is his definitive self now, we finally see the fullest of his character and Christian Bale does him justice. Christopher Nolan, praised be created complex characters and given each one justifiable treatment. That's the reason the cast works, everyone holds their own, there are no lazily written or neglected characters.
With beautiful cinematography and presentation of Gotham, the visuals and obviously the endeavours cast The Dark Knight is a film that easily gets on top of every superhero list and is certainly one to remember... remember for a long time.
Final Grade: 9/10
__label__9 Dark, yes, complex, ambitious. Christopher Nolan and his co-writer Jonathan Nolan deserve a standing ovation. I don't usually go for loud movies filled with mindless gore and violence. "The Dark Knight" is certainly loud and violent but it's not mindless. It has depth and soul. Even the Joker, in an extraordinary creation by Heath Ledger, is deeply human. The natural petulance of Christian Bale makes his ego and alter ego the most fascinating and complex of all film superheroes. Part of the genius of this movie is that Batman himself, in screen time, is not really the lead. My attention was captivated by Heath Ledger and he determines and inspires the breathtaking atmosphere that envelopes Gotham as well as us. The aplomb of Christopher Nolan as a director is mind blowing and his secret, I believe, is his obvious respect for his audience. What he's done is to elevate a popular genre into Shakesperean proportions. Bravo!
__label__9 Greetings again from the darkness. Another crackling collaboration of Pixar and Disney, and as expected, it is touching, funny, thrilling and amazing to look at and watch. Only a step below Toy Story just because it is not quite as ground-breaking, though the story is even better.While I love technology and effects, I am first and foremost a story guy when it comes to movies. This has as good of story as any film you will see. My only caution is that it seems geared towards grown-ups, not kids. The montage of Carl and Ellie growing old together is without dialogue and will probably bore some kids. Their parents certainly won't be bored; however, as it will resonate with most anyone over age 40 who hasn't taken the time to chase their childhood dreams.No question, this film is a barrage of color and eccentric characters, and can even be a bit frightening at times. Still, the key to this one are the stories and quests of the elderly Mr. Fredrickson and the young Russell, trying to earn his badge of honor. From the beginning, Disney has always had a finger on the pulse of youngsters. Here, we aren't given the usual Hollywood garbage of brainiac kids who make the adults look stupid. Instead we are given a pudgy, slightly goofy kid just trying to get his parents to take note.Special kudos to Ed Asner for bringing Mr. Fredrickson to life ... in good times and bad. He never goes overboard and is quite often absolutely perfect. Christopher Plummer has a limited role as bad guy Charles Muntz. Or is he really so bad? Cast aside by society, he has spent his life searching for redemption.I am not saying the kids won't enjoy, but I am saying make sure parents and grandparents tag along. You will be entertained, delighted and moved.
__label__9 This is another film in which it really helps to know in advance what it is, or more specifically, what it isn't. Then, you go from there. I enjoyed the animated film very much but, some of that was due to the fact a friend clued me in first, saying "this isn't really a comedy or a film for little kids. Don't expect a ton of laughs." So, instead of seeking laughs (although I still got them here and there), I just enjoyed the adventure story and marveled at the amazing artwork. Seen on Blu-Ray, this is yet another example in which you shake your head and wonder, "How does the artwork get any better than this?" Then, about six months from now, another will come along and I'll say the same thing. Overall movies may not be better today than "in the old days," but there is no dispute there are two areas in which films keep getting better and better: special-effects and animation. This is another example of that.The colors and the detail in here are almost beyond description. The artwork ranges from bold to subdued, but always stunning. I lost track how many times I wanted to just pause and admire the picture for a few minutes. From super-sharp closeups of the old man's face to lush jungle scenery, this high-definition disc is worth every penny/Back to the story, I found it a combination adventure-fantasy-comedy-suspense-sentimental story, about in that order, too. Generally-speaking, I would think adults would like this more than kids, but I may be wrong. Everyone - regardless of age - will have their jaw drop more than once viewing the incredible-looking scenes. It's really a feast for the eyes. Finally, if you like extras, there are tons of them in the four-disc DVD set.
__label__9 If Pixar - as a studio - has any weakness, it's that they have no idea how to make a bad film. Again and again they release entertaining movies with not only a terrific sense of humor, but a level of storytelling that has set a standard for today's films, animated or otherwise. While I was obviously extremely excited to see Up, never did I expect it - or, to be honest, anything else from this year - to reach the level of quality of this year's first animated film, Coraline (which, along with last year's Bolt and Wall-E, became one of my favorite films of all time). Well, I have to say that I was pleasantly surprised. Simply put, Up is a perfect movie.Easily the most emotionally impactful portion of the entire film, the first ten to fifteen minutes of Up are nothing short of beautiful. Using little to no dialogue, the opening "montage" of this film tells the story of Carl and his wife Ellie, and the wonderful life that they share together. Carl is such a lovable character, that you feel for him from the very beginning. Without trying to come off as cliché or anything, you feel the joy that he feels, and when his wife passes away, you feel his loss. By the end of the whole sequence, I was in tears.This movie is freakin' hilarious. Without a doubt the funniest film that Pixar has ever made, each and every character in Up provides their own bit of humor. Dug the dog (voiced by co-director Bob Peterson) is especially hilarious every single time that he "opens his mouth", and yet still proves to be a key part of this emotional roller coaster ride. The movie also does a terrific job at making you feel a sense of wonder, and you just buy into the adventure of these two characters. Finally, I want to give a special nod to Christopher Plummer as the famous wilderness explorer, Charles Muntz, who is easily my favorite Pixar villain.I love Up. Go see it now, as my review just can't do it justice. Not only is it extremely entertaining, but also gut-bustingly hilarious, and beautifully told throughout. To quote John Campea of TheMovieBlog.com, "The only negative thing I have to say about this movie is that it ended." The result is a film that's on par with Wall-E and The Incredibles as my favorite Pixar movie to date (which, again, is saying a hell of a lot, considering that they're two of my top 10 favorite films of all time) and while it may take a couple more viewings to say for certain, I have no qualms with saying that Up is one of the finest films I've ever seen.
__label__9 LOOOVED this movie.I found it so enjoyable to watch and actually had tears in my eyes from a particular scene which included a Doberman (won't say more). I also teared up from an emotional, tender scene with Carl and Ellie.The animation breathtaking, extremely funny and quirky too. It didn't pander to children i.e a kiddy movie, but made sure it entertained 'kids' of all ages.I actually wondered if the writers of this movie got together one night for pizza and beers and penned out this movie whilst a little intoxicated. It's got some seriously good laughs!Can't wait for it to come out on DVD.I highly recommend this movie.
__label__9 This was a pleasant surprise: a nice, feel-good film that is pretty innocent and sports the usual beautiful Dreamworks art. The artwork and colors are magnificent. I say "surprise" because it did not get great reviews. Thus, I wasn't expecting the quality film I got.The good guys - the "monsters" are typically-likable as you see in other animated films of today. They are pretty funny, too, diverse "monsters" like "Dr. Cockroach, B.O.B and The Missing Link. They, along with "Ginormica," who does her impression of the 1950s sci-fi character, "The F-Foot Woman," are appealing and fun to watch. I'm tempted to describe this movie as "innocent," because it's such a nice story that doesn't have all the innuendos some other animated films have, yet still will make most adults laugh in many spots because there is some good humor that kids wouldn't get. "Monsters Versus Aliens" shows one doesn't need "edginess" in every movie to have adults enjoy the kids' film, too.Chances are you'll find this movie a lot better than you thought. Give it a shot.
__label__9 Fortunately, I'm not one easily influenced by some users' negative comments. These people should try to restrain their bias opinions and try to review the movies as neutrally as possible.Now I would say that this movie has slow but steady momentum-building. It is a movie for people who has never known Iron Man in the comic series. The characters are given names and personalities, true to their comic book counterparts.Acting was among the best comic-turn movie I have seen so far. Effects were believable and not overwhelmingly CGI, except for the tank scene.This movie, however, has sequel written all over it. We know that because there are many scenes that could have lead to more.It's well worth its ticket price.
__label__9 When it comes to ranking the Marvel superhero(live action) films, Iron Man is for me up there with the better ones. It looks fabulous, the whole film is very slickly made with top-notch special effects(which look like time and effort was really put into it), awesome-looking futuristic gadgets and Iron Man's suit will be a guaranteed delight to anybody who is familiar or loves anything to do with the superhero. There is a pulsating soundtrack that adds much to the tension of the first half of the story and the enormously fun action sequences, which are exciting and tense with expertly choreography. The script crackles with smart humour that doesn't go overload, all of which is laugh-out-loud funny, yet the hostage plotting that takes up the first part of the film is intelligently written and somehow avoids being over-serious or over-familiar. The story has enough to allow you to emotionally connect with Iron Man(who I've always considered one of Marvel's most interesting and multi-faceted characters) and has a clever mix of the comic's 1960s origins and the effects of contemporary war, which will provide plenty of nostalgia while also feeling relevant. Jon Favreau does a great job directing, he never loses control of the story and he doesn't do anything too fussy. Robert Downey Jnr's performance as Tony Stark/Iron Man is a power-house and one of his best, doing much with the smart dialogue while making the emotional side of the characters wholly believable. Gwyneth Paltrow is a good, loyal side-kick with wise-cracks that don't come across as annoying and Jeff Bridges is surprisingly very good in an against-type role. Personally, the only disappointments were the useless character of Christine Everheart and the somewhat rushed and over-blown finale that wasn't quite as thrilling as it could have been, other than that Iron Man was a classy addition to the Marvel cannon and a great film on its own. 9/10 Bethany Cox
__label__9 With a B-list superhero, a risky lead actor, a genre that hasn't really done much other than say Nolan's Batman, this movie had a lot to prove. Wow, did it ever. It proved that superhero movies can be realistic, emotional, funny and have highly entertaining action. This is the movie to launch the MCU, and started the shared universe that DC comics and other franchises are following.Let's start with the number one reason why this movie is so good: Robert Downey Jr. I am so glad that Jon Favreau kept pressing the studio to make sure RDJ had this role because he completely nails it. He effortlessly portrays the cool, sarcastic, alcoholic, playboy that I don't even think he's acting. He's clearly not perfect as he is the guy we think is awesome but don't necessarily want to be. This role is basically synonymous with RDJ now because you can't think of Tony Stark without immediately thinking of RDJ. Iron Man wasn't a househeld name before but thanks to RDJ's performance, it is now.The action in this movie is incredible as you get to see him fly around, take on terrorist cells and fight the main villain. What I even found to more intriguing is Stark's entire time building his suit, both in the Afghan cave and in his garage because it is amazing to see his genius at work, while still being snarky and basically a tool.The writing and humor is also very good in this movie. I read that a lot of the lines, especially RDJ's were improv, which is able to keep this movie very fresh, not Rotten Tomatoes style, but it helps a lot by breaking the molds of superhero movies.A couple complaints in this film is the pacing and the final villain. The pacing starts off very well, not really rushing into him being Iron Man, establishing his character very well before his abilities. Then the final battle comes around and it's basically just an evil version of his character, which sort of works with the problem of his technology getting into wrong hands, but the fact that it's just fighting a mirror is kind of boring. The final battle comes around pretty quick and it resolved fairly quick as if they are trying to wrap it up really quickly. I did like Bridges' Obadiah Stane with his intimidating yet charming persona but in the end he was just a reverse of Iron Man, not that interesting.+ Robert Downey Jr + Fresh, new start for superhero movies + Writing and pacing (mostly) + Action and Humor - Final Villain Final Score: 9.3/10
__label__9 In the last couple of years, comic book based super hero movies have had a mission to accomplish and thats kick starting a franchise.The likes of Fantastic four, batman begins, daredevil and hulk to name a few, were made to be the start of a series. Iron man is no different, but where many of these sorts of films fail, Iron Man succeeds because it not only gets the series started but its a damn good film in its own right.Exciting, funny and well acted, iron man is an all round great effort that sticks surprisingly close to its source material. The high octane sequences where iron man soars through the air and kicks bad guys asses are awesome to watch but thankfully this is a film where things are just as interesting to watch when no one is blowing anything up and its all thanks to the Jon Favreau careful direction. The plot, in which billionaire tony starks turns from brash playboy to amour clad hero, is engaging and enthralling and favreaus eye for great acting ensures some great naturalistic performances.There are two stand out performances, the first and most important being Robert Downey Juniour as Tony Stark. Junior makes this role his own, injecting Tony Stark with a sense of cool, arrogance and an Errol Flynn like swagger that makes him really fun to watch and get behind as a leading man. The second (which surprisingly doesn't get as much praise as Downeys stark) is Jeff Bridges as bad guy Obadiah Stane. Although he could have played the role as a scenery chewing , typical villain, Bridges injects the role with a sense of realism and imposing menace, making for a convincing antagonist.Iron Man is what a marvel comic book movie should be- a mix of great story ,exciting action, and a faithful representation of a classic character.
__label__9 Quite possibly the best comic movie ever, hovering around the level of the first Spider-Man (before Raimi lost his mind). Robert Downey Jr was as perfect a casting job as we've been expecting, Bridges plays Obidiah Stane that you won't even think of him as The Dude, the CG doesn't suck,and it doesn't try to cram too much...(read more) in (the runtime of just over two hours feels just right). Any worries I had about this film went right out the window, and they'll stay out the window when I go again... and again... and again. Just remember to stick through the credits, because if you know anything about Marvel (and even if you don't) you'll find the wait worth it.
__label__9 Of the top, my all time favourite superhero movie is the 1989 Batman, and my second favourite was the 1994 Alec Baldwin superhero movie "The Shadow" (the other ones seem to lack a certain formula that doesn't appeal to me very well).Not trying to be picky, but for a superhero film to work, isn't quite necessarily based on the excitement, the colours, the special gift our hero possesses or the colourful villains. It's fundamental priority is centered around the person behind the costume, the humanly characteristics our hero portrays. That in itself lures me into watching superhero action films. The superhero persona is only the frosting on the cake as to what drives the person behind the goals the character wishes to accomplish and the tactics he/she possesses and the dangers they encounter along the way of their quests."Iron Man" is an inspiration of how superhero movies should be made. The man behind the robot, Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) suit represent raw emotion, real characterizations and a drive behind his motives. In addition to that, he is fun-loving, intelligent with just the right amount of quirkiness that is over-blown serious or overly silly. A great trait about the movie is that it isn't forced or rushed into the action scenes right away. "Iron Man" starts with the story behind Tony Stark and gradually it builds up the action. That way, it makes room for more further development as the story progresses. We can easily observe the dilemmas that Tony Stark is faced with and what he plans t do to overcome the obstacles that are upstaging him. Unlike other superhero films with cheesy dialog, in "Iron Man" the acting is surprisingly excellent. Downey is born to play this complex character, and succeeds rather well with his usual wit and low-key acting. It is by far the best I've seen since Michael Keaton in "Batman" and that was almost 20 years ago. His Tony Stark and the hardships he faces is convincing enough to sympathize with.Gwyneth Paltrow turns in another compelling performance as Tony Stark's loyal aide Pepper Potts. She provides a certain kind of charm and kindness that isn't just the female lead. Her facial expressions of concern and bewilderment speak more volumes than her voice (though her dialog was excellent too). Terrence Howard shines as Col. Rhodes, but I would've liked him to have more air time and better interactions between him and Stark, that might be my only criticism there. Plus Jeff Bridges is wonderful as the villain Obadiah Stane. The special effects are amazingly stunning in a way that it doesn't usurp the dialog like in many superhero moves. It succeeds in it being even balanced and avoids the cheese factor immensely. Last year I went to the theaters expecting to see another cheap-thrilling superhero action blockbuster, boy it was one of those rare moments where I was glad I was wrong. It was everything I ever hoped for in a superhero movie. Especially the development of the man behind the suit rather than the Iron Man himself. Stay tuned next year folks, the long-awaited sequel is coming soon. Get your tickets while they last. Get that camera rolling Jon Favreau.
__label__9 Martin Scorsese's HUGO is a family movie that will probably only cater to a niche crowd: people who appreciate movies as art (e.g. cinema snobs, though I use the term endearingly). I'm not saying it won't appeal to the general masses. It's still an interesting story, wonderfully acted, and packed with talent both in front of and behind the camera. But let's face it: this isn't your average movie, it's a love letter. Scorsese has been a vocal supporter of restoring old movies in hopes they'll be saved from oblivion (rightfully so) and this movie, based on a children's book by Brian Selznick, is his method of beautifully pleading his case before millions of people who've probably refuse to watch black and white movies on the basis that they're, you know, black and white (yes, I know those sorts of people). HUGO is a film meant to bring out attention to the movies long-forgotten and remind us of the magic behind them, told through the adventure of a young boy named Hugo Cabret. Hugo is an orphan whose father died in a museum fire, and he lives behind the walls of a Parisian train station. When he's not busy with his job of keeping the station clocks ticking, Hugo spends his time repairing an old automaton his father rescued from museum storage. An encounter with a curmudgeonly toy store owner and his granddaughter Isabelle will send Hugo on a journey to repair the automaton and discover its long-hidden secrets.As I mentioned, this movie will only really appeal to certain people. Scorsese fans might be put off by the fact that this film is a family-friendly adventure; it doesn't exactly fall in line with Scorsese's usual subject matter. The family crowds will probably enjoy it, but younger children will likely be put off by it's slow pacing and lack of excitement. It's not so much an adventure as a journey of discovery, and little kids might not find themselves too involved in the story. My own daughter (4, going on 5) gave it an honest try when we sat down to watch it and made it 40 minutes or so before she fell asleep. Unfortunately, HUGO will probably be one of those films that fades into the background (if it hasn't already) and find most of it's loving coming from the film school crowds. The movie incorporates a loose interpretation of the life of Georges Méliès, a stage magician and an early innovator in world of cinema who realized the potential for the new medium of storytelling. At a time when most "movies" were just real-world situations recorded to celluloid (such as the famous train pulling into the station), Méliès created fantastic stories and mythical tales to entertain, filling his films with special effects and dramatic costuming. The movie focuses on the fact that so many of Méliès' films were lost over time and the tragedy of these classics from one of the earliest, most important filmmakers, ceasing to exist.Scorsese makes his message perfectly clear in the final half of the movie, which happened to be my favorite part of the film. Ben Kingsley is Papa Georges (Méliès) and, in the film, he is a defeated man who mourns the death of his legacy following World War I. Kingsley is perfect here and the highlight of the movie. The children in the film, Asa Butterfield and Chloë Moretz, do a serviceable job but, as is usually the case with younger actors, their performances come off as forced and wooden most times. Even Moretz, who's performances I freakin' loved in KICK-ASS, doesn't feel real here. Maybe it's just that Scorsese isn't accustomed to working with younger talent and wasn't able to bring out the best in them, but it's a shame because the two of them are the key players in the movie. There's a handful of other minor roles filling out the film with talent: Christopher Lee, Ray Winstone, Jude Law, etc. My favorite would probably be Sascha Baron Cohen (yes, Borat) as the station inspector. With his Doberman patrolling by his side and the frame providing support for his bum leg, he was almost cartoonish. I loved him, and he was more than capable of toning down his usual eccentricity. HUGO is a movie with a lot to love, even more if you're a cinema snob. I really enjoyed it, but a slow first act and weak performances from the kids mean it's far from perfect. HUGO has my full recommendation for anyone who might want a glimpse into world of a true film-lover.
__label__9 In the late 20's, in Paris, the orphan Hugo Cabret (Asa Butterfield) is a lonely boy that lives hidden from the cruel Station Inspector (Sacha Baron Cohen) behind the walls of the train station, keeping the clocks working. He survives stealing breads, milk and other nourishment from the station stores. Hugo's father (Jude Law) was a watchmaker that had taught Hugo how to fix clocks and gadgets and died in a fire in his workshop. Then his alcoholic Uncle Claude (Ray Winstone), who is the responsible for keeping the station clocks working but vanished months ago, brings Hugo to work with him. Hugo is trying to fix an automaton, the only memorabilia he has from his father, stealing parts from the bitter and cranky owner of a toy store, Papa George (Ben Kingsley). However it is missing a heart-shaped key to make it work. Hugo believes that the robot possesses a last message from his father. When George holds Hugo, he takes a notebook from the boy with the notes that he is using to repair the automaton. Hugo follows George and meets his granddaughter Isabelle (Chloë Grace Moretz), who is raised by her grandparents after the death of her parents. Isabelle befriends Hugo seeking to live the adventure of her life. When Hugo sees that the girl has the key that he needs, he brings her to his hideout and the automaton works and draws a poster from 1902 George Méliès' film "Le voyage dans la lune". Hugo and Isabelle continue to research about the filmmaker and they find a hidden secret about George Méliès."Hugo" is a wonder for any cinema lover, with a great tribute to George Méliès. Martin Scorcese delivers his best film after many years, with a wonderful story of a boy that fixes machinery and ends fixing the heart of an old man.It is unbelievable that users without any cinema culture give low rating to a film that is a great homage to the silent movies, with many references along the story. The boy Asa Butterfield, from "The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas", gives another excellent performance and the girl Chloë Grace Moretz, who has a lovely smile, shows a fantastic chemistry with Asa Butterfield.It is intriguing that at least three movies nominated to the Oscar 2012 have points in common: "The Artist" is a film about the transition from the silent movie to the spoken films; "Hugo" is set in Paris in the late 20's and has references to actors, actresses and directors of the silent movies; and "Midnight in Paris" is also set in Paris in the 20's. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "A Invenção de Hugo Cabret" ("The Invention of Hugo Cabret")
__label__9 Like many, I suspect, I went into this film ready to be dazzled by the cinematography and a rare, nice clean story by Director Martin Scorcese. I wasn't disappointed although I found the story lagging in a few brief spots. Cutting the film another 10 minutes might have solved that. Having said that, though, a month later I'm all ready to view it again! To me, the most interesting and amazing scenes were not involving the two young main characters and the railroad station, but the ones in the last 30-or-so minutes which dealt with very early films and how they made them. It was incredibly colorful and an education to film buffs everywhere. Anyone who loves movies and appreciates the history of the art should love the last part of this story.Meanwhile, the bulk of the story still offers many great sights and sounds and I have no quibbles with any of the actors. Youngsters Asa Butterfield ("Hugo") and Cholë Grace Moretz ("Isabelle") were both about 13 when they made this and seem to have good careers ahead of them. I didn't recognize Sacha Baron Cohen as the station inspector. He was great in that role. As for Ben Kingsley, when is he ever bland?This is one of those "family films" that can be enjoyed just as much - and probably more - by adults. I wish Scorcese would make more of this kind of material.
__label__9 Someone compared this movie to a Hans Christian Andersen tale and I think this is about as good a comparison as it gets. Some people find it boring and painful, others are mesmerized and inspired by the story it tells and the way it does so. In short, if you prefer Disney's version of the little mermaid story, you will likely be disappointed by Hugo.On the other hand, if you like the attention to detail and the not entirely happy endings of Andersen's classic short stories, you will probably find that Hugo is a captivating film that is hard to describe in a few words. It really lives in a lot more than three dimensions.If you also happen to be a cinema fan, you will love it even more. What is a cinema fan? It's person that appreciates films for more than just their entertainment value. The way movies are made, the different layers of audio, visuals, emotions, symbols, the photography, the standout supporting casts, the way you can predict the cliché moves sometimes, but love it anyway. We love the good movies, like the bad ones, and films like Hugo make our hearts sing.One last note on the use of 3D. I usually avoid 3D versions of movies because that feature has not yet proved itself to be more than just a gimmick. In Hugo's case, it is still partially true. I watched it in 3D and the opening sequence in the train station as well as a couple other select shots were exceptionally staged for 3D. Aside from that though, you get used to the effect and thankfully, it's the story that stays in the center of attention, followed by beautiful cinematography, characters, and 3D is trailing humbly behind. If you have the opportunity, watch the 3D version, but you will not really love it in 2D any less.
__label__9 Wow - this was unexpected. The trailers had me believe that after 'Battle L.A.' and 'Oblivion' this would be yet another bleak, action- packed, special effects driven Sci-Fi blockbuster about an alien invasion - what the trailers failed to convey almost entirely is that over long stretches, this is also seasoned with nearly as much humor as 'Groundhog Day'. That it would invite comparisons with the Harold Ramis/ Bill Murray classic was obvious, given the time loop premise, but I never expected to what extent those comparisons would actually be justified and that this film would really tap into a similar kind of comedy. Luckily, it is all the better for it.Most unexpected of all, the main reason the comical aspects during the first half of the film work so well, is Tom Cruise's character, Major William Cage. This is easily Cruise's meatiest role since his turn in 'Magnolia' as Frank T.J. Mackey; forget his usual stern, poster boy heroes: here he plays an entirely different character – and he really seems to relish the opportunity. I won't give away too much, but be prepared to chuckle and laugh when you see a new side of Tom Cruise.Yet while this is not nearly as bleak as the trailers suggested, it certainly isn't a comedy either. And it absolutely IS an action-packed, special effects driven Sci-Fi blockbuster about battling an alien invasion (the trailers got that right), albeit one with a funny bone and great characters. Speaking of which, the rest of the cast is also very good, especially the gorgeous Emily Blunt. It seems that no matter what she does, she always comes across as genuine and real; here she succeeds in portraying her character - a tough, seasoned soldier other soldiers refer to as "full metal bitch" (no kidding!) - with just the right touch of vulnerability to make her that much more believable. Bill Paxton and Brendon Gleeson are always a welcome addition to any movie, and while they are great (as usual), character-wise, they don't do anything here that you haven't seen them do before. As for the Sci-Fi spectacle that the trailers promised, I'm glad to report that the film delivers. The battle scenes are beautifully orchestrated (not the Transformer-style blur where you can't make out anything anymore), and there are moments when the intensity of the fighting recalls the landing on Omaha Beach in 'Saving Private Ryan' - without the gore, obviously (after all, this is PG-13). The design of the aliens - the production design in general - is incredibly well done, although I would lie if I said it was something ground-breaking and new the way the first 'Matrix' was (it IS breathtaking, though).So my verdict: With one of the most inventive (adapted) scripts for an original (mega-budget) film in a long time and the best Tom Cruise we've seen in years, 'Edge of Tomorrow' will have you chuckle and laugh nearly as much as drop your jaw in awe: this is what Hollywood should take as a blueprint for exciting summer entertainment henceforth. 9 stars out of 10.Favorite Films: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054200841/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
__label__9 When I saw that Doug Liman was directing and McQuarrie penning, I was interested. I liked Liman's first Bourne film over Greengrass-directed nauseating shaky-cam sequels. McQuarrie is a wonderful screenwriter, and these two seemed like a perfect pair.I got what I hoped: a movie that doesn't treat me like a 10-year old. "Edge of tomorrow" is smart, entertaining, exciting and fun. It's an original movie as well, not a sequel or a remake (although I hear it might be inspired by a novel or graphic novel).Tom Cruise - who plays a slightly different character than usually - is good, he always brings his best. He cares about his projects and demands to do as much stunts as possible. His passion can be seen here too and he is again a joy to watch, but this isn't a movie for Cruise to carry. Liman and McQuarrie carry this movie with smart pacing, transitions and that certain magic good filmmakers seem to be able to harness at will.Emily Blunt isn't a useless sidekick, but a strong and likable character. Not annoyingly strong on the surface like some feminist ball-busting fantasy, but a real character and deserves every minute of her screen time. Bill Paxton was fun to see as a hard-ass sergeant, and Brendan Gleeson was good as well - even though his screen time is limited. All the main actors work well together, if a scene is shared.The movie flows in an interesting way and it likes to surprise you. I'm not talking about forced twists, I'm talking about that special situation where you don't know what happens next. I've missed that feeling. I didn't have to pretend to care about the movie, I was interested in every minute of it. This happens rarely. And when it ends, you're satisfied. No setting up sequels, no ambiguous crap, just a solid, fitting ending.Unlike Cruise's last sci-fi film "Oblivion", this is definitely an action movie. At first glance it may look like a generic sci-fi action film - and granted, sometimes (suits, aliens) it does - but there's enough personality of its own. Action looks good and the camera doesn't shake around senselessly. Also, the action never goes into that overblown mode where your senses get tired and you just don't care anymore. Well done."Edge of tomorrow" is a thoroughly entertaining film. It's "just" a summer movie, but it's a smart, fun and exciting summer movie. You don't have to make excuses for its shortcomings to enjoy it. It's quality filmmaking and certainly a positive surprise.9/10, will buy on blu-ray. I recommend this to everyone. Avoid as much spoilers as you can.
__label__9 After watching the trailer i was really hyped about the movie because of its theme and potential to be a really good movie. But on the other side i knew how bad the most potential good movies in the past ended up. I was scared that they screw it up and give us another Oblivion or Ilisium with much cgi-effects and bad story and no real story and/or characters. So i took my girlfriend and went in the movie with mixed feelings. But then, right from the beginning, i knew this movie would be fantastic. The first minutes really hooked me and i found myself in a funny, filled with perfect action and intelligent movie. You had the feeling like you were directly in it and you really feel with Tom Cruise from the beginning to the end. I don't like Tom Cruise in general but this role just fits him. Nobody who sees this movie could deny this. From minute to minute i was more and more in this fantastic story and wanted to last forever. But eventually the movie ended and i was really satisfied with everything. Two main characters who played perfectly, a fascinating story well told and really fast and good looking action made it for me the best movie i watched in a while (and i watch pretty much movies). Even though i don't like to recommend movies because of different tastes I really want to do this with this movie. The story is well told and there are no boring repeatings. Even my girlfriend who normally don't like movies with much action liked it a lot and added Emily Blunt to one of her favorite actresses of all time.Oh well, 10/10
__label__9 Edge of Tomorrow (EOT for me) will be the most surprising blockbuster of this year (maybe along with X-Men: Days of Future Past) for doing its job so well that beats every expectation about what it has to offer. A storyline about one man that is shown to us doing the "same" things every time could be dull. But EOT has a thoughtful script full of turns and fun that entertains and allows to Cruise to do new things inside that particular Groundhog Day.I wont spoil anything because the movie is full of valuable twists, surprisingly good chemistry between Cruise and Emily Blunt (Full Metal B**ch) and it has an involving script aside of the spectacular action sequences. The first one in the movie is totally amazing. But the rest is as that good. The movie clearly develops in the action and the riveting pace. It offers what a great blockbuster should be and it reaches that superb goal.Also Tom Cruise gives his best performance in so many time. Maybe, I'm not joking, this is his best performance ever. For the first time he is not doing an smiling hero. He is a coward. He is a scared and inexperienced soldier who has to learn to be more skillful (and to escape from his personal loop) every time he returns to the "same" day. And Cruise is wonderful in that role. You really don't recognize him. Forget his frequent smiling, his heroic or possible macho topics. This could be a new and groundbreaking role inside his career even if you are not a big fan of him (I'm not going as far as saying that this is his best movie or the most enjoyable one of all, but this movie could be one of his best ones too). And when a movie has a star doing his job properly and much better than expected, a great script and a riveting pace (the movie is never boring) the whole concept has the job done. And that's the case of EOT. Also the stellar performances from Bill Paxton and Brendan Gleeson are truly good.In fact I'm glad that this one came after "Oblivion". That one was good, but this one is different and much better. Don't expect "Oblivion 2" or its same style because you will be wrong.Please, trust me and go to the theater to enjoy this wonderful, original and surprising entertainment. It delivers much more than you could expect, delivers the best Cruise (in so many time that I personally think that this is Cruise at his best) and delivers a clever story with a good twist. Enjoy!
__label__9 There are multiple plot strands from other films gathered into a union. I won't give you any hint but you'll get it when you see it. Nowadays, movies are short on originality. But, in this case, you won't give a thing about it. Premise: An inexperience military officer was sent to war to fight an alien race invading the earth. In the middle of the battlefield, he got into an accident which causes him to go into time- loop that repeats each moment when he dies.The basis of the plot looks familiar... That could be a big problem. On the contrary, it succeeded to provide a big summer blockbuster satisfaction. The pacing is perfect, the acting is perfect. Oh, and did i mention the effects? It was ragin'!See this movie with low expectations (2D or 3D doesn't matter)...
__label__9 It is deferentially the best Si-Fi, Action, Drama and even comedy movie of the year ... amazing story, connected plot, unexpected satisfying ending. The storyline is so thrilling .. every scene is intriguing in its own way ,, even if they give the same story in the scene, its repeat will have this small tick that makes it different.Tom cruise did a hell of job, his face expressions on the movie just memorizing, makes you be in the movie itself. and those comedic, ironic bits on the movie made it more attracting. If you watched it once you will definitely watch it again and again ,, then again some scenes !! ;) the screenplay writers are geniuses they made hell of twists all along the movie and bravo for Doug Liman for a fabulous directing. not being nominated for two academy awards minimum for best actor and directing or writing was just totally unfair !! well since we're here i'm off to watching the movie once again ;)
__label__9 I hoped this would be solid movie and I was not wrong. It is based on a Japanese novel which explains fresh approach in the time-travel concept. The premise of the movie is simple: Earth has been invaded by some alien life-form (called Mimics and remind of sentinels form Matrix) and the Humanity is losing. Almost all of Europe has been conquered and the United Defence Forces are preparing one final big offensive, something like landing in Normandy to reclaim European mainland. Our main protagonist, William Cole played by Tom Cruise, is some kind of military journalist/PR expert who is send to be embedded reporter in the front line. Being a complete coward, he tries to avoid being sent into the combat force but he gets arrested and forcefully drafted. The invasion itself is a total disaster and our hero" dies within minutes. But before he dies, he accidentally manages to kill alien alpha soldier, which obviously has some kind of special ability, because he wakes up a day before the invasion and repeats the same day over and over. On the battlefield he meets a Hero of human forces Sgt.Rita Vrataski (played by Emily Blunt), the woman who managed to defeat the aliens in one battle and she recognizes what happened to him. The Mimics have a power to rewind time each time when some alpha soldier is killed, and after a contact with one Cole has acquired this ability. Rita had this power before, but she lost it after her winning battle. She wants to use Coles ability to train him so that they will be able to find Omega-alien, mind which controls the entire invasion. Training is brutal and difficult, because our protagonist is really not a soldier and we see why he doesn't want to go into battle. He dies time and again, many time funnily. He tries to reach that alien over-mind and at the same time to save Vrataski from a certain death, which is – as it seems – an impossible mission (no pun intended). The chemistry between Cole and Vrataski is superb, and never feels forced. Luckily, the director has chosen not to overdo the romantic relation between our heroes, everything is hinted at. The ending of the movie is somewhat weaker and not logical, but that's OK, it's a time-travel story and it's difficult to avoid paradoxes.
__label__9 (I don't really think that I spoiler anything, but I just wanted to make sure)I love apocalyptic movies - I really do. It is the extreme contrast to our current reality which makes them so interesting. So this was a plus on watching "Waterworld".I've watched Waterworld for the first time about 10 years ago and whenever I think back I have a good feeling about the movie. That's why I watched it again in 2016. And boy - it didn't disappoint. The story as an apocalyptic movie is great, but the atmosphere is exceptional well done and gripping.As for the acting goes - I'm not really an expert in it even though I've watched a lot of movies in my 23 years - but I had the feeling that it was superb.But what I really liked about Waterworld is the connection between Mariner (Kevin Costner) and the little kid. Mariner who became very coldhearted, egoistic and skeptical to other humans through his ruff time on the water for many years, learns to trust and even developed feelings/emotion for other human-beings through his interaction with the little girl. He is the typical "hard shell,soft core"-man.Last but not least - "older" movies - around 1985-2005 (Lethal Weapons, Rush Hour etc etc) have this realistic feeling/vibe which I really miss on current blockbusters. They all look too much enhanced through CGI.
__label__9 Greetings from Lithuania.I always liked "Waterworld" (1995), despite of its cult classic status of one of the most unsuccessful movies ever. You have to give a credit to those who envisioned and created this movie simply for the concept - how many movies have ever been made completely in the sea (which you can literally feel in every scene) and with this budget, which was the biggest at the time? How many movies have sets THIS good? Sure, "Waterworld" has some flaws (who doesn't?), and the biggest of them for me was always the main villain. As good as Dennis Hopper is, he was misused in this movie, and he doesn't even hint at being sinister - he is just way, WAY over the top in every scene, and most of his lines felt flat. And that's the only weak point in this amazingly looking action flick.Overall, "Waterworld" is a superb action, adventure sci-fi flick set in absolutely unique place (even to this day). It has amazing production values, great action scenes, super cool Kevin Costner and a great MacGuffin (a way of setting a story). Still, a great flick.
__label__9 "thanks" to some false news reports about people walking out on this great movie during prerelease screenings and about the sinking of the set, it was doomed before it was released this is not a "Citizen Kane" or a "Das Boot", obviously, but it's an extremely entertaining movie with a great story and awesome shots the same movie with someone other than Kevin Costner would have made 3 times the money. to bad peoples ill feelings towards Costner, didnt let them enjoy this movie
__label__9 I heard so much bad press about this movie (including user comments on this site) that I put off seeing it until late 1999. Boy do I feel like an idiot for not seeing it sooner and/or at the theater! At home, the movie looks wonderful - I can't even imagine seeing how beautiful it would have been on the silver screen. If you like science fiction like Planet of the Apes and The Postman (another great movie for "End of Civilization" movie lovers like myself), then you'll love this one. Waterworld had a great sci-fi story, a great cast with great performances, challenging movie-making, and most importantly: it makes you think "what if this cataclysmic event happened?"...What would the world be like? Just a great movie.If you are the type who wants your movies to fit like a puzzle, one piece by one piece until you can understand and see everything, then this probably isn't the movie for you. For example, if you liked Speed II, you probably won't dig this movie. If you liked Scream, then you might need to seek help - and you probably wouldn't like this movie either. But if you like to be challenged as a movie-goer, and you are a deep thinker, this one is for you. It is visually stunning as well.This movie ranks as one of my top 100 favorite movies of all time. A classic if you ask me! :)JD
__label__9 I had not seen this film in about 20 years since I was in my teens, thought I'd give it a go again and enjoyed it as much as I remember, not sure why it's not on people's radar more, as cheesy as action movies can be this is still better than most stuff on Netflix these days (2019)
__label__9 I am not normally one to write reviews, but I couldn't help reading several for this film on this site that just did't seem to understand where I think the film was supposed to be coming from.The majority of the complaints I saw were that the film was 'too depressing for a children's film', but whilst I see where they are coming from in some regards, every child who I have seen watch this film (I work in a cinema) has absolutely loved it, and laughed out loud almost constantly. They are not old enough to realise the message the film is trying to convey: that life isn't all about happiness. I applaud the attempt from Pixar to make a film that is not only hilarious in places, but is also a major comment on what life is like to be a younger teenager, transitioning through one of the most important moments of life. From a more personal perspective, why should everything we show our children gloss over the reality of life, and try to make them believe everything is rosy 24/7? Again, what this film does brilliantly through the message I took away at the end was that life will never be 100% full of happiness, but that is fine. Why does it have to be? A little bit of sadness is necessary. If a person was never sad, they would be inhumane. Overall then, I suppose my review is more of a comment on the type of film we exhibit to children, and how the Nanny-state we live in looks to protect them from most of lives inevitabilities. Either way, what can't be ignored is that this film is equal parts sad, and equal parts what I am sure will become a timeless classic in years to come.
__label__9 I watched the movie long time ago, and I've just rewatched it today.
For kids it will be a funny movie with no meaning maybe!!
But for an adult, its so true!! You lose your childhood personality you change you feel sad, i mean it literally touches my soul
Great movie for both kids and adults.
__label__9 Works on so many levels this movie is great for children to understand their feelings but then it is a really good film for adults as there are so many jokes that work on two levels. A really good and original movie
__label__9 I've never been a fan of the original Jungle Book movie, but I did grow up watching it, and I did like it. This remake is (in my opinion) Disney's best remake so far.The animation and the scenery is basically a new age in CGI. Not only are there CGI characters and creatures now, but locations too. The entire jungle looks absolutely real, yet it's not, and that's the great thing about it.The characters themselves were pretty cool. I didn't care for Mowgli in the original movie, but this movie got me liking him. He's brave, not as bratty, and he's pretty inventive. Bagheera is as stern and careful as ever except that he's also got the action his book counterpart had had. And I like Baloo's character here, having a bit more of a self-serving trait his older counterparts never had but eventually becoming a nice guy. And that's the main characters. The wolves got more screen time, Kaa got a lot more dangerous (though she doesn't have as much screen time, which is my only complaint in this movie), King Louie is more sinister and less comical, and Shere Khan is a flat-out beast.I'm also glad that they brought back three songs I enjoyed as a kid. I really liked Bare Necessities, and I've also started singing this version of I Wanna Be Like You. Trust In Me made me feel like Kaa was in a spy movie.So on a scale from one to ten, I'd give it a perfect score: 10/10. It's an epic movie, and I highly recommend seeing this movie.
__label__9 The Jungle Book is a live-action adaptation of Disney's famous animated film, The Jungle Book(1967). It is also based on Rudyard Kipling's novel of the same name. Mowgli(Neel Sethi) has lived in the jungle, for as long as he can remember. In the jungle, he is raised by a pack of wolves, led by Akela(Giancarlo Esposito). A wolf named Raksha(Lupita Nyong'o), is the only mother he has ever known. He has an ally & a friend, in a panther named Bagheera(Ben Kingsley). When the treacherous tiger Shere Khan(Idris Elba), opposes to Mowgli staying in the jungle, Bagheera has to return the man-cub to the man village. While on their journey, Mowgli & Bagheera receive help from a grizzly bear, named Baloo(Bill Murray). Now, it is up to Bagheera & Baloo to take Mowgli to the man village, safe & sound. The Jungle Book is a mind blowing film. It is the most gorgeous movie, I have ever seen. What's extremely fascinating is that, the whole environment in the film is CGI. The animals are also CGI & yet, they look extremely lifelike. The forest the movie is set in, looks breathtaking. Director Jon Favreau & the rest of the crew, have maintained the soul of the 1967 animated movie of the same name. Kudos to the visual effects team, for making a live-action adaptation of a movie like The Jungle Book. Don't worry. This film is not a carbon copy of the Disney animated original. Favreau adds many new elements to the film, that will keep you guessing right till the end. The set pieces of the movie, are its highlight. The 3D provides immersion & there are quite a few scenes, that will make you duck in your seats. The casting is flawless. Newcomer Neel Sethi is outstanding as Mowgli. Sethi doesn't just play Mowgli, he embodies the character. Bill Murray is hilarious & adorable as Baloo. Murray & Sethi's rendition of The Bare Necessities, is as good as the 1967 version of the same song. Ben Kingsley is awesome as Bagheera. Idris Elba is spectacular as Shere Khan. Elba's voice-over of the predatory antagonist, is menacing & flawless. Lupita Nyong'o is amazing as Raksha. Nyong'o gives an emotional & layered performance, as the voice of Mowgli's adoptive mother. Scarlett Johansson is excellent as Kaa. I liked Johansson's version of Kaa, much better than the '67 incarnation of the sneaky snake. Giancarlo Esposito is great as Akela. Christopher Walken is superb as King Louie. The Jungle Book is a must watch on the big screen, with your entire family. Go, relive this timeless tale.
__label__9 To those who still hold any degree of skepticism for Jon Favreau's The Jungle Book—Disney's live-action adaptation of the Rudyard Kiplingclassic—I say just sing along to "Forget about your worries and your strife" That's a guaranteed earworm from this really good film. Complete with splendid sound design and flabbergasting CGI wizardry, director Favreau, with cinematographer Bill Pope, deftly crafts this spectacle not only to dazzle viewers but also to enhance its dramatic agenda.With an excellent voice cast, The Jungle Book presents a colorful array of memorable characters. Idris Elba as Shere Kahn is chillingly formidable with his guttural threats. Ben Kingsley brings nobility and wisdom in the sleek jungle cat Bagheera. In her short sequence as the python Kaa, Scarlett Johansson delivers the film's backstory with a magnetic voice. Giancarlo Eposito's Akela and Lupita Nyong'o's Raksha supply the fierce patriarch and protective maternal vibes needed by their characters. Christopher Walken as the mafia-king orangutan waiting for extinction is an oddly delightful sight, especially when he starts to sing. Bill Murray as the manipulative sloth bear Baloo is a crowd favorite as he blurs the line between being annoying and adorable. Even the lesser animals (porcupine, pygmy hog, squirrel, etc.) manage to steal the show as sources of comic relief.In his first feature appearance, Neel Sethi as young Mowgli is tasked with selling the wonder and portraying the humanity of this tale. Considering that he is basically working within the confines of his imagination and a green screen room for the entire film, he manages to make everything believable: the beauty and danger of the jungle, his kinetic and charismatic character, and his deep connection with the animals. Of course, this is owed in large part to Jon Favreau's direction's too. A magical scene in the film (and my favorite!): an infant Mowgli and Bagheera's innocently touches Bagheera's face. It's a sweet moment, a reminder that the there's a seed of humanity in each of us.Although the film comes a bit dark, fans are not robbed of iconic songs such as "The Bare Necessities", "I Wanna Be Like You," and a jovial musical scoring for the film (thanks to John Debney). Old as it may, the story of The Jungle Book remains an affecting contemplation on the virtues of family, self-growth, and man's progress at the expense of nature. The Jungle Book successfully opens a new chapter in cinema's visual storytelling prowess. It deserves to be seen, and unequivocally needs to be experienced in 3D or better, an IMAX theater. It is immersive, it is enchanting, and it is wonderful.Full review here: http://www.filmpolicereviews.com/reviews/the-jungle-book
__label__9 I liked it a lot better than the mixed reviews I was reading would have led me to believe. It's not as fresh as the original, but the charisma and humor were there, and so were some great surprises. RDJ was amazing as always - it's hilarious that Iron Man is a funnier superhero than Spiderman, but the improv makes it work. Thumbs up! I think that anyone who enjoyed the first movie will like this as well, and enjoy a great thrill ride! And don't forget to stay after the credits for yet another Marvel movie tie-in that leads towards the inevitable Avengers movie in 2012! Don Cheadle did a good job - ScarJo was good, but not what I imagined the Black Widow to be like, but she *was* hot... And Gwyneth did her usual impeccable job. Mickey Rourke added weight to what could have been a cardboard cutout stereotype, and Sam Rockwell's character, though annoying, was well played.
__label__9 When I saw the previews for both of the upcoming "Snow White" adaptations, I was excited. The take with Julia felt wrong, though it looked pretty good. When I saw Charlize fulminating eyes in "The Huntsman" I knew it would hard to miss the target. This film delivers because it goes back what inspired the original source: haunted forests, dirty, hopeless villages, dark, imposing castles, and an electrifying and literally heart-stopping villain. This one got as far away from Disney as it is possible and works as a perfect bookend to 75 years of attempts to capture the spirit of the original tale.There are changes, and it is a very radical spin by making the heroine a stronger match to the diabolical queen, a bruised and bitter, yet majestic portrayal by the magical Theron, an actress who speaks volumes with a look, a quick glance, or a murderous stare. She is as impressive here as she was in "Monster". She wears the fabulous costumes by Atwood by an almost supernatural grace. She is worthy of every crown, every jewel, every outrageous outfit. She is great because her fantastical character feels almost real and is so powerful, that she is missed while she is not on the screen.In this picture, Snow White is not a meek and scared child. She must confront unexpected dangers and her evil stepmother, and she finds courage pretty much where her enemy does, deep inside her soul or heart. Both understand why each's demise is crucial and vital to the other. For most of the film, Theron is in a crusade to kill White by taking a hold of her heart. Theron also knows this young princess is the only who can destroy her, and that is enough motivation for some amazing trickery.There are plenty of breathtaking moments, from the powerful introduction of the duplicitous queen to the most fantastic display of magic on the screen involving fairies. This would inspire even Shakespeare to write a sequel to a couple of his comedies.It is gorgeous and wonderful scene that will have people talking for a while, and Spielberg must have inspired others to use a beautiful white stallion for maximum effect in a terrifying scene.Be prepared to be surprised and entertained by many actors doing top work, and this is very hard considering how Theron owns the screen. Stewart does very good work as Snow White, but the movie belongs to Theron. She is the dark force that lives in the heart of many classics, and it is hard to picture anyone else doing anything remotely close.A very good fairy tale, with plenty of heart.
__label__9 My wife wanted to see it. We saw "John Carter" because I was curious and neither of us really liked that movie. It was my turn. I had wriggled my way out of seeing the other Snow White movie but now I was going to have to bite the bullet. I was pleasantly surprised. The story and special effects, which are very good, are really all just one level of this movie. It's really about different aspects of feminine beauty.The Evil Queen (played perfectly by Charlize Theron) is very appropriately symbolized by a raven: a carrion bird that feeds off of death for its own benefit. Her beauty is objectified. Instead of allowing herself to be vulnerable she embraces the objectification and uses it to spread death and destruction for her own gain. She is particularly threatened by and benefits the most from the beauty of other women. She also obsesses about youth. Has anyone else met this woman before because I certainly have! Snow White is the flip side of the same coin. She is beautiful without being objectified. She has no symbol but is almost portrayed as Mother Nature incarnate. She inspires, nurtures and heals. Instead of feeling threatened by the beauty around her she reveals in it. She brings out the best in others. It is clear that she does not need anyone to tell her that she is beautiful in order for her to feel that way.Modern feminism is often laughable. Women can only be "free" and "empowered" if they act as libertine as the worst male philanderer without being criticized for it any more than their male counter parts. They must be objectified to be powerful. To them sex is power. They are symbolized by the Evil Queen in this movie.This Snow White is refreshing because she is not a sex toy defined by her beauty. Though she is aided by men she is certainly not defined by them or helpless without them. She is also aided by other women for that matter. She knows who she is and struggles to realize her potential as best she can, just like everyone does whether male or female. Her self-realization does not come at the cost of anyone else's, in fact, as she becomes freer so do all those who surround her. She does not need someone else to feel smaller for her to feel better. It's a wonderful message.No matter how much your little eight-year-old girl begs do not take her to this movie. There was a small child behind me and my wife who often became very frightened by the movie's violence. Take your sixteen-year-old instead. Maybe she will see that there is more for her to be than eye candy.
__label__9 IGNORE THE TRAILER: GO SEE IT!I saw this movie tonight with a friend and it was spectacular. Going in, I was excited as a life-long Disney fan but also expecting a somewhat cheesy good-vs-evil type of movie based on what I had seen in the trailer. I couldn't have been more wrong! Angelina Jolie delivers an amazing performance and makes a well-known, previously rather one- dimensional Disney villain relate-able and more sympathetic, while also managing to look like a convincing, gorgeous, magical creature.The CGI is a tad heavy and a little freaky at times (such as the three coloured pixies/Aunts) but was used, in combination with some amazing sets, to create a fantastic world and creatures which were reminiscent of the beautiful and imaginative work in movies such as "Hellboy 2" and "Pan's Labyrinth". The effort by the art team here really helps to draw you into Maleficent's world at the beginning of the movie and makes you wish you were a kid growing up with this movie as fodder for your imagination.Although Maleficent's character has been humanised in this re-telling, the story really emphasises that she isn't human at all, and explores the ins and outs of her life and how she relates to the humans she encounters.The plot for this movie really fits into the current trend of exploring the anti-hero (Breaking Bad, Hannibal...) and shows that Disney is trying to break with its past depiction of characters being black and white, good or evil, etc.I feel like I am gushing over this film, but as a Disney classic lover I have been truly impressed by what is sure to be a new favourite with kids and adults equally. I do expect some controversy over parts of the film but I won't discuss those here.
__label__9 I have waited a long time for this film and it did not disappoint!The film is very entertaining with stunning visuals and impressive action scenes. This is definitely Angelina's film and she is incredible as Maleficent.Supporting cast are also impressive and Elle was perfect casting for Aurora. The 3d was also good and really did enhance many scenes. The score by James Newton Howard really blew me away and adds magic to the film.My screening was all made up of adults which surprised me. The trailers for the film really give the film a dark tone, however the actual film has many light Disney moments. I highly recommend this film and the 3d is worth paying a bit extra!
__label__9 Sequels can be a worry when coming from big studios. Greedy cash-ins are all too familiar, where rather than stepping further into the world established by the predecessor and exploring unlimited opportunities in character and themes, they just add more antagonists, more action and more noise. It can also be worrying when the original director who helped see a great film through till the end is replaced in the next film. Rise of the Planet of the Apes was a refreshing and involving take on an old franchise and director Rupert Wyatt set up such promise for its sequel. Matt Reeves takes over the reins here on Dawn...and thankfully has taking the film to a rare, brilliant new level.The film is set ten years after the first film. The ALZ-113 virus has continued to evolve Apes. Led by Caesar, they have made their home in the woods and bred. On the other side of the island (and the world), humans are scarce. The virus has had the opposite effect and spread, killing billions. Those thousands we do see remaining are struggling to survive. When an unfortunate situation occurs between the two sides, war is imminent. But not all humans and Apes agree with the potentially devastating results.Whereas Rise of the Planet of the Apes was a stripped back study of the science at the core of the story, whilst investing us in the human drama, Dawn of the Planet of the Apes throws us head first into a very different world. The scope is immense and multi-layered. At one view, it's a dead, frightening post-apocalyptic world. At another, it's brisk, dynamic and visually arresting. Matt Reeves has such a masterful handle on every string and creates brooding scope, claustrophobic tension and powerful action sequences; all amongst a basic, but incredibly rich morality play which is raw and powerfully spoken. What is most fantastic about the character approach is nothing is clear cut. Good vs. Bad meet in the middle and spirals out to both sides. I could sit here and blabber about the complete awe I had of the major step up in visual effects of the Apes, but that's not what caught my attention. Right from the opening scene of an extreme close-up of Caesars eyes, I felt the characters. The performances from all stunt men and actors bringing life to these apes transcend the visual brilliance. It is collective. It is immersive. It is terrifying. Andy Serkis delivers one of his most satisfying performances to date. His dedication and his understanding of every thread and fiber of Caesars being are in every frame of this film. And I cannot forget to mention the all-out, aggressive performance from Toby Kebbell as Koba. He breaks the barrier of something quite terrifying and strong.Dawn of the Planet of the Apes transcends the Hollywood blockbuster. Not only does it deliver that rare sequel explores its world and characters further, but it's also richly told, beautifully and hauntingly portrayed and truly exciting and terrifying in equal measures. Quite possibly one of the best films of 2014.
__label__9 The Planet of the Apes franchise has always fascinated me but I hadn't been interested until seeing Rise of the Planet of the Apes a few years back. The emotional depth that that film brought to the table was unparalleled in terms of big blockbusters. I was attached to Caesar and several of the other apes. That movie surprised everyone so it isn't much of a surprise that the sequel 'Dawn' looked even better as they hired Matt Reeves as the replacement director. The special effects are some of the best I have ever seen and the acting was surprisingly outstanding. The trailers looked incredible so my excitement was about as high as it could possibly be for an apes movie. And the film doesn't disappoint.The film takes place at least 8 years after 'Rise' and the time jump is much to their benefit. It allowed Caesar to step into his role as leader of all the apes and link between the apes and humans. Speaking of the effects, some of the facial expression the apes gave were just devastating. And for me to say that I was on the verge of tears in a movie where apes can talk should sound absurd but its the truth. Caesar's family is present throughout and his eldest son is the one that hit home. When you see him being put into war unwillingly after life changing events you just cant but help feeling terrible for him. Koba, the corrupt ape who has always believed humans are more dangerous than Caesar thinks is also a conflicting character. There is a scene between him and Caesar near the first act that made me feel sympathy for him and whatever other apes were also tortured. Dreyfuss, played by Gary Oldman also stood out for the short periods that he appears. Much like Koba, he is a man who lost so much that he has lost faith in the world and wants nothing to do with the other species. It's these two characters who keep the conflict rising as peace is on the downfall and war is on the brink. The only real weak part of the film is that the trailers show a lot of the important scenes and I'm a guy who watches trailers everyday. I knew a little bit too much.To say that Caesar is one of the greatest leaders in film history is not an overstatement. When he is on screen you cant help but be mesmerized by the immense strength and gravitas that comes along with the character. Now it is time for the academy to honor the greatness that this film brings to all aspects of filmmaking. I wouldn't go as far as saying Serkis deserves a best actor nod, but I wouldn't disagree if they gave it to him. The performance is one for the ages.The third act is brilliant in every way a film should be. It was unexpected, visually dazzling, and emotionally fulfilling. It keeps you on the edge of your seat from the get go. It's one of the best movies of the summer and definitely made it's mark in motion capture history.+Caesar's unparalleled leadership +Special effects and motion capture are just insanely good +Apes facial expressions can be emotionally devastating +Koba & Dreyfuss similarly troubled-I knew a bit too much from trailers 9.2/10SECOND VIEWING 9.6/10
__label__9 Hands down this is the best movie of 2014. It has everything I look for in a movie, I hits on the human condition on so many different levels and evokes emotion throughout. This movie had me on the edge of my seat anticipating every next move. Haven't been so impressed by a movie in a while. This sequel does a perfect job at telling its own story, connecting to the past and leading to a future film, that I cannot wait to see. As far as the effects go the apes are so realistic and the plot truly shows what I truly believe would be a post apocalyptic San Francisco. This is a story of the human race that shows what we all hold most dear, security and family are the cores of humanity and this movie depicts that better than I have seen before. Do yourself a favor and go see this ASAP.
__label__9 I love Christopher Nolan, He has simply changed the way superhuman,extraordinary thrillers are made. Now everyone is just following him. Most of the Directors are trying to show the dark and more realistic environment in the movies and MATT REEVES succeeded in it.It is a extremely well-made and enacted movie. What works is the intensity of the characters. Caesar is the character taken straight out of the last installment, Rise of the Planet of the apes. He is the brains and the brass together. The movie is entertaining and includes a surprising ending.The film has got some amazing graphics. The Apes look real and in every way you sympathize with them. I would rate it 9 out of 10 just for graphics,acting and the intensity of the film.DO WATCH !!
__label__9 I remember getting excited when I saw the previews for this film, and I was hoping it would be good. Lately I heard rumors that it was a bomb, that it wasn't good, and my heart sank. Guess what? It looks like the critics are looking for their "Lone Ranger" for the season, which only means this is a good movie that's getting an unfair bad rap. I saw it today, and the film delivered in every possible way: It's a big production, great action, good acting, and very cool special effects.An outsider is allowed to stay in a Samurai community, falls in love with an unattainable member of the upper classes and because of his background, he's treated a second class citizen, usually being the target of offensive remarks and unfair practices. His good character helps him endure this difficult life, and the situation doesn't improve when a member of the royal family comes to visit his community. Because of a misunderstanding and the underhanded maneuvers of a witch, the community members and him find themselves in real trouble.There is a lot of action in the whole movie, and some of the dark magic stuff is fun to see. This is a film when the villain is well defined and works really well because she's a malevolent individual, with a pretty nasty agenda and a good arsenal of devilish spells. In addition to that, the fights are well choreographed, the action moves fast, and there's attention paid to some of the traditions of the Samurai culture (not sure if it's accurate), but the great art direction and beautiful photography give it a sense of reality.Be prepared not to listen to the credit and enjoy yourself.
__label__9 With Rogers, Fury, and Romanoff previously established, directors Joe and Anthony Russo do a magnificent job at expanding these characters – along with some secondary characters we've seen before – providing more depth to understanding their actions and how they will affect future stories. Sam Jackson has a stronger presence this time around, validating Nick Fury as a main staple in the MCU among the big boys. Captain America is stronger, faster, and a more refined soldier, equipped with better fighting skills and understanding of current technology. Evans plays the earnestness of Captain America's black and white morality with convincing finesse in an age of grey that he has yet to find a comfortable middle. And Johansson progresses the allure of the cunning and multifaceted Black Widow, while bringing a splendid and lively balance to Rogers' straight and narrow.Amidst such a tight and clever script, The Winter Soldier introduces a band of new characters, all of whom play a significant role, creating a more layered and conceivably real MCU. Frank Grillo brings the swolling mass of muscle known as S.H.I.E.L.D. Agent Brock Rumlow to life. Emily VanCamp surprises with her portrayal of Agent 13, whom I wish had more screen time with Cap than just two quick scenes. Robert Redford plays Alexander Pierce, a superior ranking Agent of S.H.I.E.L.D., friend to Nick Fury, and representative of the World Security Council. Pierce is a wonderful look into the higher ranks at S.H.I.E.L.D., contributing new insights as to how the organization is run outside of Fury, Agent Coulson, and Agent Maria Hill. Anthony Mackie is Sam Wilson aka The Falcon, an ex-military special-ops paratrooper and a welcomed addition recruited by Rogers to help fight the good fight. Mackie fits comfortably among the cast of veteran actors and should play nicely with the other Avengers.Enhanced for combat and strength, The Winter Soldier's presence is terrifying when it comes to any action scene. Sebastian Stan does an amazing job holding his own against his targets and those who get in his way of his missions. My only gripe is that it is not explained how he obtains the immense power and skills he beholds. The connection between Rogers and The Winter Soldier is dealt with true care and excels the story of Captain America from the first film brilliantly. (Be sure to stay after the credits for a nice button leading into Captain America 3.) The Winter Soldier is not just a fantastic sequel to Captain America: The First Avenger and The Avengers, it should also be recognized as one of the best sequels ever made. In fact, writers Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely, the duo behind Thor: The Dark World, the Narnia Trilogy, and The First Avenger, have done such a great job shaping Captain America's story that this movie could almost stand on its own. There are many exciting twists and turns in this well-constructed, political action-thriller, but nothing comes as more of a shock than how important the story is at defining the direction of the MCU. What takes place in The Winter Soldier, along with an awesome mid-credits sequence tie-in, will inherently influence Avengers: Age of Ultron as well as Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D. – which should make the TV series a lot more interesting and reward fans who have stuck by its side.Tonally, The Winter Soldier is the darkest story we've come to encounter, raising many deep-seated questions about government and soldiers of war while also taking Rogers on an emotional journey. It also has the best action choreography among all of the MCU movies thus far. Whedon's NYC battle in The Avengers is beautifully shot and written, but cannot compare to the hard-hitting set pieces found in The Winter Soldier, each building up to the bigger whole. The Russo brothers come from a background of directing television comedies such as Arrested Development and Community, and it's extraordinary how well they handle a big budget action blockbuster from cinematography to pacing. They do infuse their own style of comedy with fun references and a cameo other than Stan Lee, functioning properly within the confines of the tone and story. Henry Jackman (Captain Phillips; Wreck-It Ralph; X-Men: First Class) also composes an adrenaline pumping score that sets the right mood every time.The biggest fault found in The Winter Soldier is that it does not address the whereabouts of other heroes or where we are in terms of the time line of the other movies. Why can't Captain America call on Tony Stark to help him out or even Hawkeye who is a member of S.H.I.E.L.D. himself. This is a recurring problem we have seen throughout Phase 2 of the MCU in Iron Man 3 and Thor: The Dark World. Marvel Studios needs to acknowledge this hiccup if they want us to continue to believe all of these characters live in the same universe together. You cannot exclude these characters once you have opened Pandora's Box.Marvel Studios has hit this one out of the ball park with yet another gripping adaptation for fans to enjoy for years to come. By and large, Captain America: The Winter Soldier succeeds on all fronts. It is the perfect set up for future films and at the same time it increases the value of its predecessors. There is little to argue against its merits and should be regarded as one of the greatest superhero movies of all time.
__label__9 Marvel showed pretty clearly in Iron Man 3 that they are not afraid to take risk, bend comic stories and venture into unknown territories. I was pleasantly surprised by Captain America : The Winter Soldier because Marvel is able to do surprise audience like never before. This movie has mostly everything a fan could ask for. A political drama, conspiracy theories, Chris Evans portrayal of a "out of his time" superhero who is trying to blend in with the world and thinks that "Internet is helpful", typical Marvel's laugh out loud moments and above all some mesmerizing action sequences. Threat in this movie is not as big as the one in Thor :The Dark World since only our tiny planet is at stake rather than entire 9 realms with imaginative difficult to pronounce names, but thanks to some very smart blend of direction, acting and close to perfect background scores, threat seems to be much bigger and more importantly, real this time. You actually care for the fate of entire planet and characters. You do come face to face with the full potential of SHIELD and its structure, its influence on world politics and when the actual villain is revealed, you just cannot hide your excitement. SHIELD acts as a central character in the movie and shows itself to be far bigger and complex than what we suspected after watching all the Marvel offerings. There is Nick Fury as usual hiding secrets, keeping secrets and digging secrets but watching him vulnerable in this movie is much better than watching him acting all almighty in Avengers. Chris Evans shine in this role and I can imagine he won't be at the bottom of favorite Avengers list after this movie. His portrayal of Captain America is near perfect. Scarlett Johansson is a surprise package in the film portraying Black Widow character. She gets ample screen time presence this time, even in scenes where she is not kicking someone. It is actually the first time we learn something about Black Widow, duplicity in her character just adds tension to the already built suspense in the movie. Sebastian Stan is good in his portrayal of winter soldier. He is a perfect nemesis to Captain America in the movie. I bet you haven't seen such creative combat scenes between these two ever before. Action here is not as loud as Thor movies, it is more real, every bullet which find its target hurts, every punch delivered matters, it is so enjoyable to watch just because it is so real. I wish I could write about some more characters but that will be giving away some key points. Please be assured there are some great character comebacks, some you expected, some you didn't. I was a little let down by the climax of the film by its simplicity after the real motive of the real villain is revealed, but of course you have to remember its a Marvel film, there doesn't exist any situation alien/political/social which can't be solved by few explosions and kicks. Overall it's a highly entertaining film from Marvel, I will put it behind only Avengers and first Iron Man, this movie deserves your weekend. And of course it goes without saying, don't dare to leave your seats until last credits have rolled out, you have probably all heard the rumors about Joss Whedon directing the end credit scene. Yes it is awesome and offers an insight into the next Avengers movie.
__label__9 I applaud the Russo brothers and the writers Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely on a job well done in this action thriller The action is riveting as are the quite scenes between the characters. There are Good humorous punches in this script also. The returning cast are great and expanding their roles from other movies, I am trying to be vague here as not to ruin the movie. Also there are some great additions to the cast as well. Anthony Mackie does a soaring job as the Falcon (pun intended), he has a very comfortable fit to the cast and no way feel forces in. Robert Redford is a very compelling character and presence on screen. The action scenes were fantastic when I saw the resume of the Russos's movies I was a little worried, now I think they might have to worry about being type cast as action movie directors. There are a few changes from the comic book story line but they are not distracting. The Winter Solider is a movie that greatly expands and shakes the foundation of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. Stay for the two end credit sequences. I really enjoyed this movie and recommend it. If it's action you want. Go see the Captain.
__label__9 In the latest era, superhero movies are mostly remembered either for its one-liners, inspirational quotes about heroism, or anything deep, but only rare has been reminded straightly by the action. The set pieces are probably too good and too common to be the landmark of a certain film, thus the genre's grander goal has gone to breaking dramatic grounds while the actual fun is unnoticeably taken for granted by the audience. Captain America: The Winter Soldier returns to the forgotten ambition by simply aiming to be exciting. Clever storyline and frantic action keeps it utterly thrilling, which results a refreshing take to action blockbusters.The title suggests that it's about The Winter Soldier, but it's mainly about what has happened to the world years after the first movie. We get to see Steve Rogers trying to fit in to the future, and look into a time that betrays the real American way of truth and justice. The film smartly takes the virtuous hero to mysteries by setting the pieces into a revelation that was already conspired from the past. Rogers has become a symbol of the old integrity of the nation, and the story contrasts it to the new government. It's a gripping speculation, and it is strange because only little involves the titular enemy. The Winter Soldier feels like an extended arc for Rogers or another cliffhanger for the next movie. Otherwise it's still well constructed.The cast is never a doubt. Chris Evans still embraces what we love about Captain America; great character of patriotism and heroism. Scarlett Johansson and Anthony Mackie backs him up adding their team a little more personality. Robert Redford lends some real humanity to his ridiculously suspicious character, and Frank Grillo is just warming up to become the actual Crossbones in the upcoming sequels.CGI is now everything in action movies and they're not always that compelling. This movie of course has a lot of them, but the best parts are usually the ones that involves stuff getting hit, either by fists or damaged cars. The film has plenty of impressively choreographed fighting scenes and they bring reminiscence to the old school action which reminds the audience that nothing can really beat the basics. The larger action may look kind of stale, but the kinetic of the speed and destruction overpowers the spectacles, moves the audience with genuine thrills. This is the enthusiasm that superhero movies lack nowadays and it is encouraged that they should offer more face punching, knife flipping exhilaration like this."Redefinition" is indeed the word. While Captain America the hero represents how true justice works, the film relives why action movies are so awesome. None of the film is groundbreaking whatsoever, but how it is done is terrific and humbly fun without any pretension. It does still need to live up a bit more with the title, but the merits could ignore that fact. Besides, our blockbusters today do need some straightforward thrills like this, plus a consistent plot that explores more of its iconic universe. Some might ask for a little more depth at the intriguing first act and the Winter Soldier mystery, but it would be wiser to just sit back, relax, and enjoy what this genre is meant to be: awesome and loyal to its heroic roots.
__label__9 That is not to knock the first Captain America film because I enjoyed that too, just that Captain America: The Winter Soldier personally came off as superior. Some of the second half does try to cram in too much giving off an at times bloated and convoluted quality, other than that Captain America: The Winter Soldier was excellent. It is a great-looking film with stylish cinematography and editing that give off a gritty and audacious look, and the special effects and the stunts are of the quality that you can't take your eyes off them. The music is not quite as good as it was in the first but it has enough of the rousing excitement and haunting intensity to make it a good score that matches what is going on on screen. The action sequences are spectacularly choreographed and of edge-of-your-seat calibre whether it is a highway car chase or a sky battle with some of the destruction authentically harrowing, and the screenplay is one that is smart and snappy with heart aplenty. The story is mostly compelling and very cleverly constructed, it mixes action, comic-book adventure and political thriller and does it in a way that is well-balanced, that is alive with nimble nuances and in a way that the film gives off a sense that it knows what it's trying to be. It's suspenseful and exciting with its fair share of themes that gives the film emotion and depth. The characters are engaging and interesting, with their personalities deeper and more expansive, and there is a much more believable villain this time around(the big reveal was actually quite surprising). A great thing considering that the cast of cast is quite large if not quite to the everything-but-the-kitchen-sink extent; the interplay between the characters works a treat also. Anthony and Joe Russo direct astutely and the acting is fine, with Chris Evans even more confident than he was in the first, Scarlett Johansson at her fearless and Anthony Mackie fitting comfortably in his role. Samuel L. Jackson is as dependable as ever, Robert Redford in a bold move gives seasoned support and is not stiff at all and Sebastian Stan is similarly authoritative. All in all, while there are a couple of issues with the second half Captain America: The Winter Soldier is an excellent sequel and manages to outdo the enjoyable first film. 9/10 Bethany Cox
__label__9 I went to see this film last night (FRIDAY 9th July 2010) and laughed out loud for the first time in heaven knows how long.I thought the animation and personification of the characters, facial expressions were far better than any film made recently .Walt Dohrn, as Rumplestilskin had a suitably peevish and vindictive expression to his voice. While all the other usual cast were well on form.There was as always a moral to the story and Shrek's philosophical reflection to Fiona at the end cleverly turns the tables on our previous ideas of the film .This is far better than Shrek 3, a laugh out loud film that does n't fail to deliver a feel-good response . It 's a James Stewart 'It's a wonderful life' meets Shrek. Loved it .
__label__9 Shrek Forever After is a fantastic movie with a very well written storyline and an outstanding voice cast and characters.The Shrek film series have been emotional and funny movies from the very beginning and they have always had humour for kids and adults,Shrek Forever After was for the fourth time in a row a lovely Shrek movie.This movie is also filled with some lovely new characters,I particularly liked Butter Pants,a child who is a huge fan of Shrek and constantly asks him at the start of the movie to do his signature roar.Its definitely not as good as the first or second Shrek but it's a big improvement from the third.Shrek Forever After is a pleasing finale to a great film series and fans of the previous Shrek's will definitely be impressed. When Shrek starts missing his days as a real ogre he comes across Rumpelstiltskin,who offers him an ogre for a day deal,but it turns out to be a terrible mistake and Shrek has never saved Fiona ,hes never met Donkey,Puss In Boots or the rest of his friends and Rumpelstiltskin is king of Far Far Away.Its now all up to Shrek to get things back to normal and kiss his true love before midnight or he will cease to exist.
__label__9 Shrek Forever After (and yes, that's the official title as seen in the first real shot of the film) is a welcome return to form after the disappointment of Shrek The Third, which LOOKED beautiful but hit all the wrong notes. This one has recaptured the fun of the franchise while potentially being the darkest one in terms of plot. Alternate universe stories have been done to death, but the appealing nature of so many of the characters makes this one work, as well as the fact that the filmmakers are clearly trying to wrap up the story (which includes a small bit of retconning at the beginning, but it pays off toward the end). The 3D occasionally falls into the trap of throwing things towards the audience, but the characters and sets are so beautifully animated in all dimensions (the textures of Shrek and Donkey, particularly, have improved even on the wonder that was Kung Fu Panda) that the 3D actually adds to the enjoyment. The first two remain the crown jewels of the franchise, but this is a worthy addition and a suitable end to the... well, saga is too strong a word, so storyline will have to do. And the bonus? Eddie Murphy gets to sing SEVERAL songs WITHIN the movie!
__label__9 After the dismal effort that was Shrek the Third, I had no real expectations from this fourth outing for Dreamwork's lucrative green ogre and his fairytale pals; all I was looking for was an hour-and-a-half's mindless distraction from a very boring cross-channel ferry journey.What a pleasant surprise it was, then, to discover that this latest Shrek adventure is not only much, much better than the previous chapter, but is actually as enjoyable as the first two, with a cool 'alternate reality' storyline, a memorable villain in the form of the marvellously malevolent Rumplestiltskin (Walt Dohrn), some terrific new characters and plenty of familiar ones, loads of genuinely laugh-out-loud moments (Donkey's party trick with a pair of eyeballs still has me chuckling a week later), and a well-worn but still heart-warming message: that we should spend more time appreciating the good things we have in life, rather than yearning for the things we don't have.On the more technical side, the CGI is excellent and really makes me wish that I had seen the film in glorious 3D to fully appreciate the impressive visuals; furthermore, the voice-work is perfect as one would expect from the talented cast, and the choice of music is inspired (check out the witches busting some moves to The Beastie Boys).With Shrek the Third, it had looked as though the fairy-tale was finally over, but if Dreamworks can guarantee to keep the quality this high, I have no problems with them spinning out the franchise for a few more adventures.
__label__9 I'll keep this relatively short. I'm a 60 year old, very hard to please Brit. This film, pleased me very much indeed. Hence, the 9 out of 10 score. Those who marked this film down, really do require a reality check. I'm not usually given to writing film reviews, but on seeing this film's current low rating - I felt compelled to write something positive, in its favour. The acting and special effects alone, stand on their own. The film, may well be 105 minutes long, but it's 105 of the best spent minutes I've had, this millennium. I won't delve into the film's storyline, as that has been adequately explained by others. If you want to be engagingly captivated, in a futuristic, make-believe World - where anything seems possible - then this is the film for you. I for one, would love to escape the current mess of a World we live in - to experience the alternative dimension, on offer, in Tomorrowland: A World Beyond
__label__9 I can't believe the bad reviews. I also can't believe that nobody understood what they accomplished with this film. It's Ayn Rand's Atlas Shrugged! They managed to take that book and bring it up to date while making it accessible to all ages. That is a fantastic feat in and of itself. To also make it really entertaining is extraordinary. Cerebral and action packed, it holds the attention of the young right to the end. And the end? The film was the pin that showed the audience what could be if only we don't give up and just make things better. Atlas Shrugged and then asked for help. Everybody should see this film. Now. Oh, ignore the comments about continuity. Does it really matter? Artistic licence anyone? Right my review is over but I have to keep writing because it won't post unless I fill the minimum line count.
__label__9 I think this movie was fantastic. You should know what you are watching and who is the target audience and have the right mindset. For example if you are watching any of the Aliens you are looking for a bit of horror, thrill and some brutality; and if you are watching Avatar you are looking a hardcore mystery and thrill. I think Brad Bird did an amazing job for its target audience. When I watched it I was not expecting brutality, hardcore action or deep mystery, I was expecting good quality soft Sci-Fi. I think it did great to keep me extremely interested throughout the movie and the message of the film and its delivery was beautiful. Talking to and reading the reviews of those who didn't like it, I think they were expecting a Sci-Fi like Aliens, or Terminator which is like eating Coffee and Cookies for lunch! You'll not enjoy it because you have the wrong expectations! It's the problem of the consumer not the product. So the bottom line is, if you are looking for a beautiful soft inspirational Sci-Fi with an amazing direction that you can watch with your kids and teenagers and re-energize the dreamer in you, go for it! :)
__label__9 I watch a lot of movies, many pass me by, enjoyable but not groundbreaking.During and after this movie I was emotionally affected, it was a lovely story of hope, loss, childlike dreams, action and Brad Bird is excellent at the family dynamic and dialogue - having worked on other excellent films such as The Incredibles,I stopped by the IMDB page to see what the scrore was - and for once, I have to say, it's WAY off something that I expected or agree with.I don't know what happened the critics or the public. But this is fantasy, sci-fi and action at its best. It reminds me a lot of old 80s adventure films like Daryl, Flight of the Navigator, War Games etc. but more complex, modern effects and a wonderful cast.I hope this deserves a cult following or becomes a lesser known rare gem. It deserves far more praise and attention that its score of a mere '6' (at present) on IMDB.
__label__9 The creativity and imagination that went into this movie is stunning. A great message about how positive and forward thinking can influence our futures and the futures of generations to come. The movie brought me back to my younger days when my imagination would make exciting dreams and made me think that anything was possible. The characters were great and the scenery and colours were spectacular. I have never written a review before on this site, but after watching this movie I was inspired and felt impelled to give my comments, if only to encourage others to watch it. I remember watching Star Trek as a child and how imaginative it was with all the communication gadgets, most of which actually exist today. I wonder if many of the items seen in this movie will one day become reality as well, perhaps not in my lifetime, but with the advancement of technology and the imaginations of the creative people at Disney, who knows! All I know is that I don't agree with the critical reviews and will always form my own opinion.
__label__9 I went and saw this with an open mind because of the mixed response, and I must say I had a blast.The story is unique, creative and quite compelling. It is original science fiction which we do not get too often. The film is inspired by the Disney park, but at the same time, it's more of it's own thing.It is well acted and the characters are quite likable and believable. Frank Walker is interesting, entertaining and has a sense of humor. Casey is also an interesting character. I think George Clooney and Britt Robertson portrayed their leading roles very well.The film is also quite funny at times. During this film, I think I may have laughed more than I usually do at the movies, which is saying something.I think Brad Bird did a very goo job directing. The visuals are stunning and the special effects, while mostly CGI, are impressive. The action scenes are neat and intense. There is not a single moment where I was bored with the film. It also pays a nice homage to the Sci-fi genre.The one problem I had with this film is that I was expecting a little more of the "Tomorrowland" place and that the story needed a little more work.Overall, this was a great film and I highly recommend it to fans of science fiction. Plus, I think it totally puts "The Haunted Mansion" (2003) to shame.In the end, "Tomorowland" may not fully realize it's potential, but it should be satisfying as a fun and intriguing Disney family sci-fi/adventure comedy thrill ride.
__label__9 This movie is misunderstood, I'm writing my first review with the hope to increase understanding and appreciation of it. Lose your expectations and watch it as it is, an adventure. Think about the things you see, analyze them. Don't expect to be on the edge of your seat all the time from exciting action, it takes a back seat after the beginning.. which the trailer seems to mostly contain and make a false picture of the film. My opinion.. I try and keep this spoiler free.While perhaps expecting a little more awe scenes, action and insight into the "tomorrowland" society the movie has some very nice scenes. 2/3 into the film it somehow got a bit boring.. but it gets better. Could perhaps have been cut on a place or too, but the scenes were visually pleasing instead. A few confusing aspects here and there like the transition at the end, but who cares? No one has seemed to bother analyzing the philosophical aspects of pre-determination, alternate realities and concepts like our consciousness creating our reality as an reflection of our collective state of mind. The message is a fine one and something to think about our outlook on life.Does all the negativity really serve us? What's the content of news? Only negative stories. Do they encourage you to go out and make a difference or make you depressed and go on with business as usual it is all going to h*ll anyways? But it sells and is a money making mechanism.. It is a bit humorous the extent the level of fear the society in the movie are in and project unto the children and society, connections to our western society can be made too.If you notice these things you will appreciate the hints at secret societies and connections to the "Club 33" in Disneyland too and other goodies like the rivalry between Nikola Tesla and Edison. Nothing too profound or divulging from my understanding but it's there too, Tesla is an under appreciated figure in our history who deserves a lot more recognition.These are the things I brought with me from this movie, and I'm a sucker for scifi, which was what initially attracted me to the film, but it turned out to just be eye candy to boot :) not the main thing about the film.
__label__9 I went into this with somewhat low expectations, do to the poor box office. I was more than pleasantly surprised. It was visually amazing. The cinematography was so well done. A perfect combination of CGI and interesting set locations. Acting and casting was superb. Britt Robertson is one of the most compelling young actresses. She has brought her A game to the big screen. If you can get around the global warming nonsense that creeps into almost every film these days, Sort of like the cold war and Nuclear proliferation were in all of the films of the 60's and 70's., the plot is actually clever. I really enjoyed this picture and wish I had seen it in 3d. I think it may have a cult following in the future
__label__9 Inspired by Frozen I started my search for new Disney movie which will offer me same "Disney magic" as i experienced in Lion King, Pocahontas, Bugs life, Frozen etc.So I found Big hero 6, and the magic started. This movie is made for all ages. What i find very interesting in this new Disney movie is that he is very educational, specially for children, but grown ups will enjoy ether. characterization is very deep , and you will feel as you are one of the characters in this beautiful story. Visual effects are stunning, so u will experience another Disney master piece. After seeing this movie , I would really recommend it to all movie lovers, especially fans of the Disney cartoon movies. If you are looking for an intelligent and inspiring cartoon movie for your youngest, you can stop looking because you just found it.
__label__9 Hiro is a teen genius who seems to waste his time until his brother sets him on a right track. Tragedy strikes, and Hiro teams up with new friends to find the truth...eventually saving the day.Baymax is a robotic healthcare assistant that could have been developed as the usual annoying sidekick that has the heart of gold, but he just has a heart of gold here--as in doing research, his only intention is to help whomever he can.On a scale from 1 to 10, I rate this movie a 9 because its heart and soul outweigh the problems I have with it. Some scenes might be upsetting to younger viewers, but it is perfect for all ages.My issues:1. One of the characters sounds stereotypical. 2. The villain's identity and motive feel tacked on.I know the primary audience is not going to notice things like this, but I do...and I this happens to be one of those times that I cannot let it go.
__label__9 Back in 2009, Disney purchased Marvel Comics for four billion dollars. Shocking and surprising the world, many fans of both sides were curious whether Disney would make an animation film based on a group of characters from the comics. Three years later, Director Don Hall approached John Lasseter on making a film with Marvel Characters and found the Big Hero 6, a comic book series that even the most well known of comics didn't know who they were. In fact they were so obscure that Marvel themselves even forgot that they had the characters.Marvel gave Disney the liberty to change the characters so that they could be seen as a Disney Animation Film. And the result is simply refreshing.Big Hero 6 is a beautiful film, showcasing how much animation has become. The east and west coast mash up of San Fransokyo combines to make such a spectacular scenery, that the city may as well be a character to the film.The cast is also fun to watch. One annoyance films try to do is by shoving the diversity of characters in your face. Big Hero 6 doesn't do that, instead the focus is on the characters themselves and not the diversity, making it enjoyable to watch. One of the biggest highlights is the girls of the cast. I took my 3 nieces with my friends and I, and they loved how they were smart, enjoyable and didn't need to fall for a man. The cast is truly relatable, whether you are precise like Wasabi, positive like Honey Lemon or just a guy who loves media like Fred.Of course the star of the film is the robot of Baymax. Any scene that he is in steals the show, whether it is his introduction or his care for Hiro and Company.The Villain by far is one of the best villains in recent Disney history, he doesn't sing, dance or monologue, he simply gets the job done.The film showcases the action greatly by giving large scopes and music that fits exceptionally well. Emotionally, the film captures the audience by showcasing the bond of brotherhood between Hiro and his older brother Tadashi, as well as his friend Baymax who is like a Surrogate brother to our main hero.A strong lesson in this film, is that family can be more than blood related, you have friends, who become part of that. That really showed how much I cared for the loved ones around me, especially my older brother who is in the military, creating robots and fixing medical equipment.If there was one complaint I would give, I would've like to see a little bit more about the rest of the team. Other than that, Big Hero 6 is a heartwarming tale that captures something for the entire family.Big Hero 6 is another showing that Disney can continue to make great films after the juggernaut that was Frozen. This film showcases that the Disney Revival (Films such as The Princess and the Frog, Tangled, Wreck-it-Ralph and Frozen) is not over yet, and I cannot wait to see what the next film has to offer.
__label__9 So I am a little biased as i love comic book movies. Just gonna start with that.So I nerve new that this was originally a marvel story. So when i heard that it was definitely on my must see list. Not to mention the trailer was pretty funny, the scene in the police station and the following scene at the kids home.This movie has the driving force that all great hero stories have, followed by the conquering of self and the inevitable epic battle. This movie has everything necessary to be a great comic book movie and a great Disney movie. Fun for all ages, and friendly as well.
__label__9 Side note: The animated short Paper Man was very good. The animation was a unique blend of CGI but made to look like hand drawn animation. The only slight issue I had with it is that the short got crazy at the end and became unbelievable. Still cute.Being a gamer, I decided to go to this movie. I knew the movie was going to be good, but I didn't expect it to be really good. The action, humor, voice-acting, plot, and animation are all great. Since this movie is aimed towards gamers, I feel like a lot of the cameos and jokes are going to fly over most people's heads, such as "All your base are belong to us" written on a subway wall or "Leroy Jenkins was here". Thankfully, the movie doesn't rely on cameos to be successful.The animation in Wreck-It Ralph is very beautiful, and is great at expressing the video game world. I did not see it in 3D, but just from watching it in 2D I can tell that this movie would look amazing in 3D. The animators did really good in this movie because each video game world looks vastly different from another. Each world feels like an actual video game that I've played. If there is one problem that I can pick out in this movie (and many others have noted this as well) is that the plot focuses on the Sugar Rush world a bit too much. Most of the other worlds are revealed at the beginning mainly for the sake of reference, with only a few actually being important.The humor in Wreck-It Ralph is good because it hits a very large audience. A lot of the cameos and jokes are related to video games but there are also a lot of movie references as well, puns, slapstick jokes, and some crude humor. Some people complained at the crude humor but honestly it didn't bother me because it was coming from a character who looks like she is five, so it actually made sense.The interesting thing about Wreck-It Ralph's plot is that it has very little to do with an external conflict, but more with an internal one (which is a pun in itself because they are inside of video games). There is a main bad guy, and a huge disaster, and all of these other conflicts but these elements are back seat to the character development. I thought it was neat since most animated movies do the opposite. The voices for all of the characters were really well done. There weren't any annoying characters which adds to the movie. Another nice thing about the plot is that main bad guy is not revealed until the very end of the movie which focuses the plot on the characters, not the action or the villain.Overall a really great movie. Spectacular animation, great voice work, emotional and even touching at times, and overall humorous. While the Sugar Rush world might get slightly stale after awhile, it is still excellent movie. Gamers, this goes to you, WATCH THIS MOVIE!
__label__9 It's all fun and games at Litwak's Fun Center, until someone gets hurt. While this cliché'd line seems to reflect the simple plot in most movies (while the moral outcome does, too), the setting makes Wreck-it Ralph a wonderful, refreshing, and unique pleasure. Inside a family arcade, all the game characters (both old and new) are real, and travel among the other games when the doors have locked. Ralph, from Fix-it Felix Jr., desperately wished to be a good guy, and be rewarded, so he sets off in search of a medal. By doing this, he sets off a chain of events that puts multiple games at risk, and unveils a hidden threat.Disney has made this film equally accessible by both parents and children, and I find that wondrous. At times, Vanellope sounded quite mature, and at others, just like a tod. Soon, kids will squeal in excitement when they find a Fix-it Felix Jr. game, along with other last-gen arcade delights. In this way, the film has rendered itself timeless, if only in that small way. Although it doesn't feature many of the games themselves, you are able to see many characters, including retired ones.Being inside a game world gave the artists a great deal of freedom, but they didn't waste it. At every new turn, another extremely creative point would grab your attention, and I'm sure I missed many (which would enhance a second viewing). Another big enhancement is the 3D atmosphere. I doubted I would ever say this, but I urge you to see this in 3D, or turn around and go home. Because of all the pixel-related artwork, and 3D modeling, it is natural to have such a dimension added on. It's the perfect film to have it for!Now, for all the extra material surrounding the movie. Similar to Pixar, Disney has included an animated short right before, called "The Paperman". It doesn't feature any voice acting, but it's hilarious, and very well-made. I am sure you'll enjoy it. Second, the end credits are worth watching through, but not because there's an extra scene (there isn't one). It's only worth it for the visuals during the credits themselves, in 3D.In conclusion, Wreck-it Ralph is family-safe, and highly enjoyable. See it in 3D as soon as you can!
__label__9 Wreck-It Ralph imagines a world where arcade game characters have their own lives. It's like a video game version of Toy Story and Who Framed Roger Rabbit, but this one is much more appealing to the viewers. As expected, it has an endless amount of enjoyment, a big scale of adventure, and really fun characters. The filmmakers poured their love of these games to the film thus made this a wonderful nostalgic delight.The story doesn't sound quite fresh at some point, especially for an animated film, but the main attraction here is the theme. It sets in a magnificent arcade world. It's fun when it captures the prominent video game mannerism like the freezy movements in retro games, an out of control game character walking against the wall in 3D games, and the glitching. It's easy to know what the central games are inspired from. Many would root for the cameos of iconic game characters and each of their appearance are splendid. The movie is filled with action set pieces that are undeniably exciting. By its grand scale and references, the experience is gloriously extraordinary.Another charms of the film is the characters. We don't usually see films with well developed characters in blockbusters these days but this one has plenty of it. They all have their own pathos, but in a comical way. And the voice performances were great. John C. Reily gives Ralph an acceptably nice personality. Sarah Silverman makes Vanellope adorable enough. Jack McBrayer is quite charming as the always positive Fix-It Felix Jr. and Alan Tudyk is delightful as the goofy King Candy.The animation is wonderful. Like what I said, they really capture the elements of every video game. The game "Sugar Rush" has the most colorful(and product placed) visuals of the film. The rest is thoroughly inspired. 3D is usually unnecessary but here is just fine. It's kind of worth it by its large adventures. There is no scene after the credits but it's better to stay during it to listen to the theme songs of "Sugar Rush" and "Fix-It Felix Jr.".There isn't much groundbreaking about Wreck-It Ralph but what makes this special is its tribute to the classic video games. It also serves an over the top fun and sweetness(no Sugar Rush pun intended). It's so fun, it's easy to ignore its little flaws. There are some things that could have been better, but the film is already good enough. To those who love playing video-games will enjoy this a lot more. It's just full of life and nostalgia. Wreck-It Ralph is a great virtual ride!
__label__9 The trailer alone, garnered much buzz for Disney's latest 3D adventure. Seeing some of'the great video game villains of all time assembled in one room was just too good to be true. The hype was elevated to even greater heights given its ubiquitous presence at San Diego Comic Con. In the back of mind I kept thinking, "THEY'RE GONNA WRECK IT!"Thankfully, the movie succeeds in creating a heartfelt tribute to the golden era of the 80's arcade, decorated here and there with familiar cameos that are both nostalgic and laugh out loud hilarious. The actual video game characters and their respective worlds don't play as big a role in the movie as I imagined. My wishful, nerdy brain hoped Ralph would be jumping through pipes in Mushroom Kingdom, riding horseback through Hyrule and blasting away at baddies alongside Mega Man and who knows who else. This didn't happen, and may have to do with the price of buying the rights to some of these iconic images. But the new world Disney Animation Studios created is rich with surprises, and rivals that of Monstropolis, Toy Story, and the Kingdom of Far and Far Away. Wreck-It Ralph (voiced by the incomparable John C. Reilly) is the Donkey Kong to Fix-It Felix, Jr.'s Mario in a fictional 80's arcade game. The game itself is believable enough to have existed during the era. Ralph, along with other villains in various games throughout the ages, share the same plight of feeling under-appreciated by gamers and other citizens of the video game world. The breaking point for Ralph was the 30th Anniversary for the "Fix-it Felix, Jr." arcade. To commemorate the event, Felix throws a party in the penthouse of the game's high-rise apartment complex, a party that Ralph wasn't invited to. (The DJ of this party offered another cameo I really wasn't expecting and left me in awe of this tribute to electronic art.) What sets Ralph apart from all the other villains is that he is determined to actually do something about the unfortunate role of "Bad Guy" he was programmed to assume. He intends to jump to different arcades in order to become a hero in another game. This act of invading a game other than your own is mysteriously referred to as "Going Turbo" by the other inhabitants of the video game world. It's considered taboo, especially since it runs the risk of permanent death: dying outside your own game makes it impossible to regenerate.After a series of unfortunate events, Ralph eventually crash lands into Sugar Rush, a cross between the worlds of Candy Land and Mario Kart. There he befriends the adorable Vanellope (voiced by the lovely Sarah Silverman), who like Ralph is seen as an outcast in her game. In her case, she is considered a freak due to her tendency to glitch out. To Vanellope, racing runs deep within her code, but the only thing stopping her is the candy land's ruler the Candy King, who is adamant on keeping her out of the race.Ralph's spontaneous hero's journey spells trouble for the rest of the video game world. Due to Ralph's disappearance, the "Fix-it Felix, Jr." game is in danger of being unplugged, leaving Felix with the hefty responsibility of retrieving his clumsy counterpart. Ralph's brief stint in a Halo-esque game called "Hero's Duty" is also a big nuisance to the foxy Sgt. Calhoun (Jane Lynch). She must now track down and exterminate a Cybug that Ralph mistakenly helped escape from the game. If the bug goes viral, it could destroy every game in Mr. Litwak's entire arcade for good.The video game setting offers awesome moments of creativity for the Disney animators, from the way the characters are drawn and animated, to the way their lives are portrayed outside of their own game. The voice talent is also really impressive across the board. While the movie isn't the all-out Smash Brothers brawl many were expecting, the movie comes with loads of surprises that are sure to delight and entertain a wide audience, gamers and non-gamers alike.The movie could not have come at a better time. People who grew up during the era of the arcade are now starting to have families of their own, and are very likely to laugh along with the children they bring to the theaters. This same video game generation also witnessed the Disney Renaissance of the early 90's: The Little Mermaid, Beauty and the Beast, Aladdin, and the Lion King. With Wreck-It Ralph destined to be an instant classic, following the success of the equally impressive Tangled, we are in for a new Disney Renaissance for a whole new generation.Note: Get there early enough for an excellent animated short, and stay to watch the credits roll if you haven't yet satisfied your nerdy gamer fix.
__label__9 In 2006, when Disney bought Pixar and put John Lasseter in charge of its entire animation division, most of us expected great things. After 60- odd years of complete domination in the animated movie world, Disney had lost the magic, if you will, of Sleeping Beauty and The Lion King in the midst of a heap of mediocre features that just didn't measure up to the legacy the studio had created for itself. With Lasseter on board, though, multiple generations of Disney fans who had grown up on the virtues of Robin Hood and the like hoped that the man who had redefined the genre with Pixar would return the studio to its previous glory. In essence, we were hoping for Wreck-It Ralph.All Ralph (John C. Reilly) wants in life is to be appreciated. As the villain in an 80s arcade game known as "Fix it Felix Jr.", Ralph's job (which he does quite well) is to inflict damage upon the Niceland apartment building so that Felix (Jack McBrayer) can fix the damage. For thirty years, the end of each night, when the arcade the game resides in closes up shop, sees Felix returning to the thankful residents of Niceland while Ralph is relegated to the dump. Eager for a change, Ralph sets off into the various realms of the other games in the arcade in search of a Hero's Medal which would, he believes, change his lot back home. But when he stumbled into the racing game "Sugar Rush", he is waylaid by an obnoxious misfit known as The Glitch (Sarah Silverman), and when their paths become tied through a series of wild events, Ralph begrudgingly agrees to assist The Glitch, though he has no idea what he's getting himself into.I have seen Wreck-It Ralph described as, "Toy Story for video games" and I believe that statement rings absolutely true. In a year in which Pixar's own feature (Brave) felt much more like a Disney movie than one that fit the standard Pixar model, it is fitting that the Disney film should have a decisive Pixarian feel to it. From the early moments, which include a gloriously scripted voice-over that would make Morgan Freeman jealous, Wreck-It Ralph establishes a link to the best of the Pixar universe and it never looks back. The concept itself is ingenious and deliciously outside the box, a truly original idea that opens up a thousand doorways through which to take the film. I imagine that, when advance notice of Wreck-It Ralph began circulating in Hollywood, many studio executives spent some time banging their respective heads against a wall or two, wondering why they didn't think of this. And yet the core value at the film's heart, the universal desire for acceptance, is incredibly simple and stands out as one of the reasons why the film excels. One of the keys to success in the Pixar universe is emotional relevance; they take common themes, struggles, and desires and illustrate them through lavish and meticulously crafted mediums, be they talking toys or a lonely robot. That quality courses through the veins of Wreck-It Ralph, creating a bond between the audience and a giant, buffoonish video game character, and making his journey seem all the more real in spite of the fact that it takes place within the code of an arcade game.The quality of Wreck-It Ralph, however, goes far beyond the original concept, something I was concerned about going in. It would have been easy for director Rich Moore and his creative team to focus too much on the overlying idea and forget to build the rest of the film up to the appropriate standard. Instead, it is clear that every detail of Wreck-It Ralph was given the proper attention. For one thing, it is a very intelligent film. Sure, you have the requisite "duty" jokes that will keep the kids (and possibly the adults sitting next to me who shall remain nameless) laughing but overall, many of the bits are geared toward an adult audience (though none of it crossed the line to become inappropriate for younger viewers, a quality I appreciated). There are also a ton of little details (you might even consider them Easter Eggs of a sort) that are geared specifically to the gaming population, all of which brought great approval from the audience. The voice work, too, is spectacular. Reilly is the perfect actor to bring Ralph to life and he brings a real sharpness to his role. In addition, Silverman, McBrayer, Jane Lynch, and Alan Tudyk do an excellent job in their respective roles and all of them blend together with their characters. This is a quality I greatly appreciate as I feel that too many animated films utilize their voice actors only to create familiarity with the audience instead of having them actually act. As in, "Hey! That's Adam Sandler talking! Now I like this movie!" I find this very distracting and annoying. Here, though, the actors lend both their voices and their talents to the cast and I think Wreck-It Ralph is much the better for this. I was especially impressed by Tudyk, whose voice was completely unrecognizable to me until the final credits rolled. Perhaps the most impressive feat Wreck-It Ralph pulls off comes in the form of keeping its narrative integrity and momentum together despite undergoing a fairly significant scene shift. Ralph's stay in "Sugar Rush" takes up a solid half (or more) of the film and that world is dramatically different from the film's initial setup. I was a bit concerned that this would result in a drop-off in interest/quality but instead the film just keeps on rolling. Wreck-It Ralph is a wonderfully fun, smart film that should keep a wide-ranging audience happy and instantly takes up residence amongst my favorite Disney films of all- time. Please check out my other reviews at thesoapboxoffice.com
__label__9 On the one hand there are many delightful moments in THE POLAR EXPRESS, not the least of which is the entire look of the film--appealing in a way that great illustrations of children's books always are to young and old. Tom Hanks and the others enter into the spirit of the whole thing with gusto--and all the performances are right on target.On the other hand, much of the film is an excuse to dazzle with roller-coaster-like rides on the express train that roars across various landscapes making wild leaps and turns, all the while thrilling us with a sense of adventure and excitement. For the very young, the ride might be a scary one, especially when the daring young hero rides atop the train during a blustery snowstorm.Things barely quiet down once the destination is reached at the North Pole. Still there are dangers lurking and the thrills continue with some amazing photographic tricks that can only be done in this new process of computer generated animation.And to add a cozier touch to the proceedings, certain famous Christmas songs are interjected at intervals to give the North Pole--and the film--a warmer glow.All in all, quite an imaginative and innovative achievement--impressive enough to assure its place among future Christmas favorites with unlimited appeal for the young in heart. The message of Christmas is lightly hinted at but when Tom Hanks as the train conductor tells the little boy, "The true meaning of Christmas is in your heart," we can be assured that children everywhere will definitely "get it".Visually, it's a stunner. I didn't see it on the IMAX screen where I imagine it really knocks your socks off, but at a multiplex where picture and sound were impressive enough to convey just how advanced special effects technology has become. There is much artistry involved here, especially when the night scenes of the train's fast-moving travel through a blustery snowstorm capture some rich winter landscapes, including a frozen lake that threatens to demolish train and passengers before danger has passed. The camera-work is continually fascinating as is the artwork involved.A pity there couldn't have been more of a story in the children's book which is the source--but the artistic visuals are the main source of entertainment here and they are superb. The busy background score by Alan Silvestri is reminiscent of works by John Williams. Although none of the sprightly song tunes are particularly memorable, there is a wistful quality to one of the new Christmas ballads sung by the children.P.S. - I have just watched it on DVD, a year after writing the above review--and it's definitely a keeper--just as wonderful as you could want, an amazing technological achievement that should delight all ages who can still hear that bell! Tom Hanks, as the conductor, is my favorite character--brilliant job.
__label__9 I have to say that I adored 'The Polar Express'. It was just the sort of film I needed to truly get me into the Christmas mood. The story revolves around a young boy, who is coming to an age where he is doubting Santa Claus' existence, until the Polar Express- a magical train destined for the North Pole- takes him and a group of other young children on a journey to Santa and to reaffirm their faith in Christmas.I had reservations about the use of CGI animation since I felt it really only worked for stories about cute animals but having seen the film, the CGI was the best way to capture the spirit of the film. It really wouldn't have worked as well in live action, the sense of other-worldly magic would have been lost. And as it was, the artwork was beautiful, especially the snowy mountainous scenery that the train passes through.This film took me back to my childhood and that tingly-feeling every child gets on Christmas Eve in anticipation of Santa's visit. The story was sweet and innocent without being nauseating, and I think every one of us can empathise with the boy who wants to believe in Santa but is growing away from the innocence of early childhood and faith in magic. Much like Raymond Briggs' 'The Snowman', I predict 'The Polar Express' will go down as a Christmas classic. It certainly makes a pleasant change that this year's Christmas film was actually about Christmas and I hope they make the re-release of this film an annual Christmas event.
__label__9 "Wow!" I found myself saying this over and over as I watched this movie on DVD went it came out just before Thanksgiving of 2005. It continually amazes me how far computer animation has come in the last decade. Each time I think I've seen the most beautiful or amazing artwork, something better - like this - comes along. I couldn't believe how good this looked on my flat-screen TV. I can't imagine how good it must appear on an expensive plasma television.The visuals are just stunning, scene after scene. The sound ain't bad, either! Those not playing this on a surround system are missing an integral part of this movie and a lot of fun. The roar of train as it comes and goes, for one example, is awesome.The story is very simple but yet entertains all the way with some very adventurous scenes. There are a couple of roller coaster-type scenes which were especially fun, and actually thrilling. Normally, 100 minutes is a bit long for me to sit through an animated film but this was filled with so many amazing sights and fun action scenes that time was no problem.The only drawback I found were the kids in the story. Most of them were not anyone you could really warm up to, except for the girl and she was so overtly politically correct it was sickening and an insult to anyone's intelligence. A black girl was NOT in the book but the typically-Liberal filmmakers not only change that character but make her the only one in the film with absolutely nothing wrong with her. She's so sweet she makes Mother Teresa sound like The Grinch. None of the kids in the film, however, were brats or annoying. The only funny kid was the nerd, of course. PC baloney aside, this was fabulous entertainment. Tom Hanks did a great job voicing over five characters and I've just simply never a better-looking film than this.
__label__9 When we watched this wonderful movie, we absolutely forgot where we were. The minute it starts, it gets your attention and keeps it until the very end. You enter a truly magical world.We don't celebrate Christmas, but after seeing some trailers with the chocolate being served on the train (very funny and cleverly done!) I became so curious about this movie, and even more so because I am a huge Tom Hanks fan. I just had to see it. Any film Tom Hanks is in, is great and this one is no exception.So when we sat down, I already expected this to be good, but I could never have imagined how wonderful this one and half hour journey would be! From the start to finish, everything is perfect. I didn't mind the facial expressions at all, or lack of them. The rest of the movie makes up for that minor glitch.I must say, the part in the end where Santa uses his whip to take off, well that whip reminded me of the one the Balrog had in the Fellowship of the Ring, lol! And the engineer was very funny, the children just laughed so hard when the beard was pulled of the assistant of the engineer and his scream actually became a communication with the deers blocking the railway! There is so much in this movie, comedy, sorrow, disappointment, happiness, relieve, suspense. In the end, you are left with a warm and satisfied feeling. And that's what a family movie should provide.
__label__9 "The Polar Express" is based on the classic picture book by Chris Van Allsburg, and brought to the screen through the magic of computer animation. The movie is a huge spectacle of wondrous imagery. All this surrounds the story of a skeptical young boy who takes a Christmas Eve ride on the Polar Express, in attempt to convince himself that Santa Claus is real. Tom Hanks is the star, providing the performance of several characters, including the stoic Conductor, who plays it strict in one instance, then endearing in the next. Much has been made of the liberties taken with the original story. This is just a case of having to stretch a simple story into feature length. But a lot of added sequences are enjoyable and breathtaking, including the snappy "Hot Chocolate" number. You can expect this to be a new holiday classic that will be remembered for years!
__label__9 HTTYD is the latest in a run of animated 3D films to hit the family market. One might be forgiven for feeling a little weary of this genre as the big production studios churn out one "action-packed film with a cute central character and some pretty effects" after another. But wait...HTTYD stands apart from these other attempts for a number of reasons. First, the 3D (Odeon digital in this screening) is moving more toward the subtle with fewer "gratuitous" 3D moments than in movies like Bolt and Coraline. As 3D becomes a staple of high street cinema, directors seem to be finding 3D to be more about adding depth rather than a brief focal-point. That's not to say that there isn't effective use of the 3D wow-factor here; it's just not all the film has to hold attention.Second, a cast of voice talent that does not demand too much consideration of the man/woman behind the microphone is refreshing. Baruchel is not over-playing the sugar or the heroics and, as much as an animated character can be, he is believable and as three-dimensional as the visuals. Butler is not greatly stretched here but manages to stay just the right side of a Mike Myers impression so as not to annoy. How many kids will now think the Vikings were a fearsome race of Americans and Scots? Oh, well! Third, the plot and dialogue. You may not know the plot and I won't spoil it now. It is straightforward stuff but the pace keeps it interesting for kids and the grown-ups. Younger children may be upset at times and I heard a sob or two at the emotional moments. Nothing too heavy here though, it's just a well-written script with as many actual laughs as I have seen in a kids' film.This is one of the best films so far in this prolific genre and it has been made with passion rather than thrown together to cash-in on the thirst for these films, right now. I would urge all ages to see this film in 3D as the textures are extraordinary and you can't help but be charmed by it all.
__label__9 With a somewhat unwieldy tile and the lack of the winning Pixar storyline that has dominated the Oscars for a decade, Dreamworks animations latest could have been a clunker. Not only is How to Train Your Dragon the best film of the year so far, but it even eclipses the quality of last years duel academy award winner Up.The latest 3-D film to fly into theatres in so many weeks is also the best of its format (story wise), making Burton's overblown misfire Alice in Wonderland look even more pitiful. Dragon will no doubt enamour kids (excuse the cliché) of all ages while keeping parents not only awake but equally enthralled. This movie is sure to tug the hearts of anyone who has ever loved a pet and will undoubtedly draw tears from those who are so inclined.The texture that can be created from today's CG technology never ceases to amaze. Consider a beautiful tracking shot of a downed dragon where the twisted wing that protrudes towards the screen is actually out of focus, as if you yourself were staring awestruck at the giant lizard that lay before you in real, tangible life. I did not have the pleasure to viewing How to Train Your Dragon in 3-D but I have heard great things and even without having paid a surcharge the film does in no way suffer as a result. The narrative, visuals, writing and voicework is ample reason to seek out Dragon and frankly is the real heart of the movie anyways.On the Island of Berk, the Viking community that lives there does not fear a rival tribe, the weather or disease but rather a much more toothy threat: dragons. Nightly raids by the winged beasts have forged a great hatred upon the tribe and led by the aptly named Stoik the Vast (Gerard Butler) they wage war with the intent to rid themselves of dragons once and for all. This is not a feeling shared by Stoik's scrawny son Hiccup (Jay Baruchel) who favours non-lethal tactics as much as he does blacksmithing. Much to Hiccup's surprise, during one of the aforementioned raids he is able to down a dragon with one of his contraptions. Intent on proving his manhood to Stoik, he seeks out to find the dragon know as a Night Fury but finds himself unable to slay his scaly foe. So begins an unlikely and forbidden friendship with the later named Toothless that follows a time-tested but absolutely rewarding arc that is as enthralling as it is touching.Joining Butler and Baruchel, both of whom give excellent performances (with Butler recapturing some of his 300 mojo), are the likes of Craig Fergusson as the Viking blacksmith, America Ferrera as the feisty object of Hiccup's affections and a whole slice of the Apatow gang including Kristen Wiig, Christopher Mintz-Plasse and Jonah Hill as other young warriors. Much like WALL-E, Toothless exhibits oodles of personality and is endlessly endearing. To achieve this level of depth is perhaps even more impressive due to the fact that he never utters a word and must emote through non-verbal means.Along with Kung Fu Panda this movie represents the highest ilk of the Dreamworks repertoire and that is not a backhanded compliment by any means. Like Panda, there are thrilling and well choreographed action sequences to compliment the heart, and plenty of humour to keep this from becoming too much of a dramatic slog for younger theatre goers. Teenager or adult, fan or animation or not if you like truly good cinema, you will not be unsatisfied by How to Train Your Dragon.Read all my reviews at simonsaysmovies.blogspot.com
__label__9 incredible! certainly the front runner for the best animated film of the year. from the first to the last frame this film is as good as an animated film gets on almost every level. beautifully written, designed and executed. though an incredible movie, it's not quite perfection - probably due to time and budget limitations (is there ever enough of either?). that said, the problems i had are far too few to mention. if dragon doesn't absolutely slay at the box office i'll lose faith in middle America. congrats to the filmmakers - you've made a masterpiece and you made me feel like a kid again. thank you.
__label__9 In the Viking village of Berk, all the houses are new since the dwellers are in permanent fight against the dragons. The leader Stoik the Vast is unsuccessfully trying to destroy the fearful Night Fury and locate the dragon's nest to destroy them. His clumsy and inventive son Hiccup works as a blacksmith and dreams on becoming a dragon killer.After a raid of dragons during the night, Hiccup uses the weapon he had invented and he hits the Night Fury. However, he has no witness and nobody in the village believes on his words. Stoik the Vast sails with the Vikings to look for the dragon nest and Hiccup decides to seek out the dragon in the woods, and finds it with a severed tail and can not fly again. Hiccup calls him Toothless and they become friends. The boy uses his skill and manufactures a prosthesis for Toothless and he leans how to control the flight of Toothless.Hiccup learns why the dragons attack his village and finds that his own people had misjudged them. But his great defeat is to prove his father how intolerant the Vikings have been against the dragon."How to Train Your Dragon" is a delightful animation with a wonderful message of friendship, intolerance, misjudgment, peace and harmony. The directors and writers succeed in telling how important is to understand other people using the metaphor of the dragons in an original way and with an unusual conclusion. The message of this film is highly recommended for politicians, religious leaders, military intelligence and governors of the world. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Como Treinar o Seu Dragão" ("How to Train Your Dragon")
__label__9 It is a good movie because it is interesting. I like it because of the advanced technology used in the movie, I have watched it a lot of times. Some people say it is a bad movie, but my opinion is that it is a great movie. The bad thing is that I find it boring sometimes, probably because I watched it a lot. I also really like the Terminator T- X. I really recommend that movie. It is in my list of favorite movies. I also think that it is some of the best Terminator movies. I try to never miss it on TV. I enjoy watching it with my friends and family. The first time I watched it was in late 2003, shortly after it was released. I cannot really describe it.
__label__9 I really have no complaints about this movie. I had been wanting to see it for quite awhile and finally rented it on CD. I liked it at least as well as the others. Probably more. I've been in the mood for action lately. Action starved. Too many Beaches movies. And, this movie has action. In fact, I remember several times thinking that I couldn't look away even for a moment afraid of what I would miss. That's the definition of action in my book.Unlike a lot of action movies, it wasn't just mindless mayhem. Each individual scene had a point --- in addition to the mindless mayhem. I even liked the plot quite a bit. Logical. And, I love movies that mess with the time line as long as it makes sense.The other nice thing about T-3 is that it set us up for T-4, T-5, etc. I don't know exactly how Arnold is going to do it since by the time he gets out of politics, he won't look anywhere near as chiseled and it will be hard to believe he is the best the robots have to offer. I would still like to see him have a role, but since robots don't age, it might be tough.All in all, excellent mayhem of the first-rate mindless variety.
__label__9 I remember sitting in Hall H at Comic-Con two years ago, when Marvel first announced Guardians of the Galaxy. This came on the heels of the title reveals for Captain America: The Winter Soldier and Thor: The Dark World, and my initial reaction was one of utter confusion. What the hell was Guardians of the Galaxy? I was completely unfamiliar with the source material, and upon learning that the team featured a gun-wielding raccoon and a fighting tree creature whose could only speak a single phrase, I was even more puzzled.Fast forward to Comic-Con 2013, when James Gunn appeared onstage in Hall H to showcase the first trailer for the film. It was so unlike anything Marvel had ever done before, so far outside the box that I immediately fell in love with it and couldn't wait to see more. Although that first trailer was well-received by the Comic-Con audience, the general public seemed to be scratching their heads in much the same way that I had when the film was first announced. Marvel fans would love this, no doubt, but could this bizarre little sci-fi romp with a cast of unknown characters actually work?The answer is a resounding "yes," as Guardians of the Galaxy is not only an exceptionally well-made comic-book film, but an exceptionally well- made film, period. It's a sprawling space opera with a host of memorable characters, a joyous sci-fi romp through beautifully realized worlds, wildly inventive action sequences, and an almost nonstop barrage of humor and fun. The protagonists are a bizarre assembly of losers and misfits, with the CG-created Rocket and Groot providing some of the most emotional and human moments of the film, and it's all brilliant. Marvel should be applauded for allowing Gunn the opportunity to realize his vision, because rest assured, this film wouldn't have been nearly as good with someone else at the helm.Guardians of the Galaxy has a distinct personality that sets it apart from other Marvel offerings, yet there are enough recognizable elements to remind audiences that it exists in the same world. Clocking in at just under two hours, the film maintains an impressively well-balanced pace, avoiding the problem of over-inflation that many superhero films fall victim to. I can't think of a single moment when I wasn't completely enthralled with everything that happens on screen, and as soon as the credits began to roll I was ready to watch it all over again.
__label__9 Expectations: surpassed - and they were pretty damn high to begin with.Excitement: met - after watching the teasers, the clips, and after Captain America the Winter soldier I was crossing my fingers Marvel were on a roll.Face: still trying to recover - you know when you go to the cinema to see a comedy ( a film designed to make you laugh ) and you feel like an idiot for paying for the ticket as you were forcing most of the laughter in the company of your friends? This is a film that it's genuinely easy to laugh about: The humour is so subtle because the characters are so subtle - they're not too animated, they're not too stereotypical and they are NOT what we've come to expect from traditional superheroes and THAT'S WHY THIS FILM WORKS SO WELL! Regardless if you're a Marvel fan or simply a fan of movies in general this is an experience you will welcome as it's new and refreshing to a sci-fi genre which really needed something new and refreshing and with great performances, stunning visuals and a barrel of laughs mixed with the right amount of action this was a real treat to watch.Thank you Marvel Studios.
__label__9 You might expect a movie studio at the top of its game to play it safe rather than strike out in new, bizarre directions. Certainly, it's hard to imagine any other studio giving the greenlight to Guardians Of The Galaxy - a huge blockbuster movie based on a title unfamiliar to anyone who isn't a comics aficionado, starring a relatively unknown actor playing a character most people have never heard of. And yet, Marvel scores once again with its willingness to head off the beaten track. GUARDIANS is a fun, fizzy delight, even as it mines some surprising depths of emotion from its ragtag group of anti-heroes.Peter Quill (Pratt) - a human abducted from Earth as a child - has grown up into an intergalactic thief who has no idea what he's getting into when he takes possession of a mysterious Orb. Little does he know that Ronan (Pace) - a genocidal Kree radical - will do just about anything to get his hands on said Orb, including sending alien assassin Gamora (Saldana) after it. Gamora, as it turns out, has an agenda of her own. Trapped in an intergalactic prison (long story), Peter and Gamora are forced into an uneasy alliance with three other misfits: a brainy, sarcastic raccoon-like creature named Rocket (voiced by Cooper), a giant tree by the name of Groot (Diesel), and the vengeance-minded Drax The Destroyer (Bautista).The truth is that there's almost too much going on in GUARDIANS. Not only do we meet a host of characters we've never met before, on a raft of new planets teeming with brightly coloured life and detail, we're also introduced to several plot lines all stuffed somewhat awkwardly into the film. We have Ronan's planet-destroying aspirations, which are somehow bound up with the evil plans of Thanos - that creepy purple- skinned dude who popped up at the end of The Avengers. Peter's kidnappers turned surrogate 'family' are also on the trail of the Orb, turning up at moments both enormously convenient and inconvenient to the plot. It all makes sense in the end, but until it all clicks into place, it can make for a rushed, unsettling experience.But, despite its occasionally unwieldy script, GUARDIANS triumphs because of the gang of scruffy losers (a term that will take on a different, more heartfelt meaning during the film) at its heart. Director James Gunn, who co-wrote the script, clearly feels a strong affinity for each one of these outcasts, all of whom are easily outlaws in some (if not all) parts of the solar system, each one battling - at least initially - to save his or her own skin rather than to save the world. It's fascinating to watch the five members of this unlikely group slowly banter, bicker and batter their way into becoming a team.Most joyfully of all, Gunn never loses sight of the prickly, selfish side of his characters. He gives them plenty of rich, emotional moments - whether it's Peter and Gamora bonding over the loss of their parents, or Rocket's ability to read a whole range of meaning into Groot's extremely limited vocabulary ('I am Groot') - but never allows the film to descend into dangerously sentimental territory.In fact, Gunn pumps up proceedings with a healthy, hearty dose of humour. Films in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) have always been more tongue-in-cheek than the likes of the considerably more dour Dark Knight franchise, but GUARDIANS is a heady trip of a different order. It practically delights in bursts of odd, subversive comedy, and actually dares to punctuate its most epic face-off with a sly homage to, of all things, Footloose.Pratt - so winning in TV's Parks And Recreation - holds the emotional core of the film together. He exudes an easy, rakish charm that makes Peter both dashingly arrogant and achingly vulnerable. He's matched very well by Saldana, who is clearly delighting in the opportunity to play the world-weary, no-nonsense Gamora - bred into a killer, born a fighter. The rest of the cast does justice, too, to the film's cheerful swing from drama to comedy and back again: Bautista brings unexpected pathos to Drax's occasionally comical determination to avenge his family against Ronan, while Cooper sounds completely unlike himself - in a very good way - as a creature who hides a world of hurt beneath his mouthy exterior. Even Diesel manages to find a great deal of depth in a CGI character who only communicates via the same languid burst of three words.If anything, GUARDIANS is let down by a trio of not particularly threatening villains. Pace snarls and spits in heavy make-up, but can't quite rustle up much in the way of nuance or genuine menace. Ronan is a one-note madman, with so little in the way of backstory that he automatically becomes less interesting. Thanos, too, now voiced and performed in motion-capture by Brolin, doesn't get much to do beyond lounge on his space throne. Only Gillan's cyborg Nebula manages a smidgen of complexity; even then, she struggles to be half as fascinating as her conflicted "sister", Gamora.Before the film was even released in cinemas, Marvel announced that a sequel would be coming in 2017. It's a no-brainer as to why. The film is smart, funny and quite wonderful on its own merits. But, even more crucially, GUARDIANS is a gamble that pays off handsomely for Marvel. It opens up the MCU in, quite literally, all directions. Don't be surprised if you see our more earth-bound heroes heading into space sooner rather than later. The film also adds a new cast of lovable rogues to the MCU's roster of characters: a gang who, one might say, are actually all the more heroic for being people who would ordinarily be running in the opposite direction from any galaxy-guarding duties. Frankly, we can't wait to see what they get up to next.
__label__9 Recently, I began to understand that I was tired of blockbusters: these incredibly spectacular, voluminous, incredibly expensive, but by and large similar to each other and empty films. In 2014, apart from bitter disappointments like the "New Spider-Man 2", there were really standing copies (whether the new "X-Men" or "The Face of the Future"), but they also failed to arouse my special trepidation. And that's why I did not expect the "Guardians of the galaxy". And if it were not for my long-standing affection for the Marvel universe and the invitation for the preposition, I probably would not even have gone to this film and ... Much would have lost!During the viewing of "The Guardians of the Galaxy" I was surprised at the fact that it was gradually becoming ecstatic. I could not imagine that I can still empathize with screen characters and laugh at their words and deeds. This film really gave me back the love of blockbusters and revived the hope that in the film world of fiction it is really possible to do something new and unusual.And now I will try to briefly note those components of the film that bribed me the most.1. Cool plot. This tape contains several storylines, which, due to the abundance of central characters, are revealed as completely as possible. The main action is twisted around an artifact, which everyone abducts from one another. However, developing this storyline, the creators of the tape have time to give us and a spectacular escape from prison, and many spectacular interplanetary battles, and the history of the formation of a real strong friendship between the five main characters. The plot develops very rapidly and practically does not sag, keeping spectators intrigued to the very titles. Personally, I would have sopped the melodramatic part of the film, however, the reaction of the viewers to these episodes was absolutely normal, so it's more of my harmfulness and natural cynicism, and not some miscalculations of the writers.
By the way, the film itself is more associated with "Star Trek" or "Star Wars". So not special lovers of the Marvel universe can appreciate this tape.2. Excellent humor. "Guardians of the galaxy" is a very funny film. And the cool thing is that here there is a place of self-irony, as the tape makers coolly ridicule various clichés peculiar to blockbusters. In general, it is necessary to see and hear. Probably, this is the most cheerful film of this year, although according to official information it is not even a comedy.3. Team spirit. I remember two years earlier I was choking with enthusiasm, praising the Avengers precisely for their team unity. However, one can not help but notice that in the Ironman and the company the team spirit was a little bit pretentious. The heroes were constantly measured ... hmm ... by forces, and the friendly atmosphere was relegated to the background. In the "Guardians of the galaxy", things are different: the characters are so different that they have nothing to compete with. This five of the losers (and they call themselves that) form a real friendly union, which more than ever realizes the principle "We are different, but we are together."In connection with the above, it makes sense to mention the work of a stunning cast of actors. Chris Pratt creates a very bright character who can compete with his own charisma, even with Tony Stark himself. It's amazing that I did not pay attention to this actor before: after watching, I was surprised to find that I already watched a dozen films with his participation. Now I will follow with interest the development of his career. Zoe Saldana confirms the status of the most unearthly actress of our time, adding to her track record a new alien image of the charming and daring Gamora. Professional wrestler Dave Batista is very organic in his role. I think he definitely has a future in the film industry. Very pleased with such venerable professionals of their business as Benicio Del Toro, Glenn Close and John Ci Riley, although, not soon, that these fantastic actors would like to see on the screen a little more.
Rocket Raccoon is also a rocket (or for many of the fair sex - milash raccoon) - this is the main bomb of the whole film. I can not appreciate the work of Bradley Cooper, since I watched the film in Russian dubbing (which, by the way, is also surprisingly very good). But the character is simply amazing! The hall came in a raging rapture, it cost the raccoon only to appear on the screen. Definitely, this is a find without which this film would not have been so successful. Spectator love was won by another character - Grut (or, again, for many girls and children - just a Tree). By the way, the incredibly laborious work of Vin Diesel on the voice acting of this character you can appreciate in Russian dubbing.4. Bright special effects. What to say, the film is bright, very beautiful and voluminous. A real holiday for the eyes, on which it is worth to fork out, in order to appreciate all this beauty in IMAX 3D.5. Music! Even if the film leaves you absolutely indifferent, then the music just needs to please you. The creators of the ribbon collected just the cream, the quintessential culture of the 70s, choosing bright, favorite, but un-played tracks. I was really pleased to share some of this amazing culture with my friends who, outside of this movie, would not for anything agree to listen to "this is not necessary for old people".TOTAL. "Guardians of the galaxy" is a completely crazy blockbuster that charges the audience with a positive and undoubtedly captivates with an incredibly warm atmosphere, exciting plot, bright special effects, killer jokes and a genuine team spirit. For the first time in a very long time, I felt this naive childlike feeling: I did not want to leave the cinema and leave this amazing, incredibly convincing and soulful world, which was given to us by the creators of the "Guardians of the Galaxy." Probably, this is the first blockbuster this year, which I will want to reconsider. And this is the rare film that I want to assess neither from the point of view of a critic who cares at trifles and searches for story inconsistencies, but from the point of view of the viewer who can easily be bribed by a talking raccoon and a smiling tree.
That's why I highly recommend watching this movie literally to all viewers. And that's why "The Guardians of the Galaxy" is becoming a movie that I without any qualms of conscience put an unprecedented 9 points, which I have not been awarded with yet another film from the universe I adore Marvel.Enjoy watching!
__label__9 (This is both a review of the film, and an assertion of Christopher Nolan's filmmaking style)There have been many reviewers and critics alike that have high praise for the film (the visual effects, the acting, the music), but say how it's not Christopher Nolan's best directed film. This is where i personally would have to disagree. Before i get into it, though, i'll talk about Interstellar a bit.Interstellar is truly a sci-fi epic like no other. To compare said film to '2001: A Space Odyssey' isn't just a disservice, but unnecessary. The films are almost nothing alike, simply sharing small plot elements. Also, Stanley Kubrick's vision of Arthur C. Clarke's sci-fi epic wasn't to ponder the philosophical questions that accompanied the story, but to make art, and art is was, and is. With Interstellar, Mr. Nolan set out to make his most personal and emotional film to date about love and time (time being a recurring theme throughout all of Nolan's films). But it's so much more than that too. There are no words to express the epic journey Nolan takes us on in the film, but needless to say, it's tear-jerking and emotional throughout. The acting is top-notch, especially McConaughey, who gives (I would say) his most emotional performance yet. But the actor who stole the show in a few scenes (one in particular, when they're on an alien planet) was David Gyasi as Romilly, one of the astronauts aboard the Endurance, their spacecraft. The musical score from Hans Zimmer is, without a doubt, his best and most influential work to date, helping drive the film's bold and breath-taking vision (the church organ helped significantly). The visual effects are easily the best to date as well, and of the year. To see a black hole created through visual effects in such a way, with pages theoretical equations provided by Kip Thorne (theoretical physicist, of whom's work inspired the film's genesis); what you see in the film is the most realistic depiction of a black hole, and even offered new insight to accretion discs surrounding the anomalies. But even everything else, from the alien planets to the Endurance, the visuals always look real. Then, there's the writing. I would definitely have to say this has some of the best dialogue i've ever heard in a sci-fi movie, and the script continually pours or oozes emotion, keeping the audience tethered to the film.Now, about Mr. Nolan. Don't just look at Nolan, but look at his films. Some say Inception would be his masterpiece, while others would say it's The Dark Knight, or Memento. But honestly, every single film Christopher Nolan has directed is a masterpiece not of its genre, but of Nolan. Following is his quiet masterpiece, not the film that put Mr. Nolan on the map as a phenomenal director, but one people visited or revisited after becoming accustomed to Nolan, after seeing Memento, what could be called his breakout masterpiece. Then, right after, he directed the remake of the Norwegian thriller, Insomnia. This, too, could be considered a masterpiece, even if a remake. Then, we were given his take on the Batman universe, starting with Batman Begins, the origin masterpiece. Then, there's The Prestige, adapted from the novel of the same name, which can be called his dark masterpiece. The Dark Knight, his bold masterpiece; Inception, his complex masterpiece, and The Dark Knight Rises, his flawed masterpiece. Now, we have Interstellar, his emotional or personal masterpiece.This is just my looking at Nolan and his films, but whatever your thoughts are, you can't deny Interstellar is one hell of a journey. He certainly is one of the best filmmakers of our time, and of all time. I can't wait to see what he does next, but i'm not sure it will be as emotionally powerful as Interstellar.
__label__9 So last night I got the chance to see the early screening of Christopher Nolan's Interstellar. The film I've been waiting so much from the early days of the shooting. How did it fare? Here's my take:To avoid any tl;dr risk, let me get this straight from the very beginning, Interstellar is one goddamnedly good film, it gets you to the edge of your seat, it soars, it warps, it rips your brain senseless. It's that good.Interstellar is a story about the earth dying, with its soil no longer able to sustain crops other than corn, and of course, it will lead to the extinction of humanity. Our hero is an ex-NASA test pilot named Cooper (Matthew McConaughey), a typical ordinary-guy-in-an-extraordinary- situation everyman who's also a dedicated family man, especially toward his daughter Murphy (named after the Murphy's Law). In an all-too-Armageddon style our hero gets invited by the (publicly) defunct NASA to become humanity's last hope in finding a new home, for they have found a wormhole near Saturn (2001, anyone?) which will warp the astronauts to another galaxy in quest of a habitable planet. Solid and compact premise, although it's been used before.For seasoned filmgoers, there are many similar elements (although it's understandable) with Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) and Robert Zemeckis' Contact (1997). In a sense that this is not a bang-bang-shoot-shoot-blow-em-up sci-fi, but more of a slow-burning, metaphysical sci-fi which gets you to think about your place in the universe and your exact place in time.Similarity with 2001 and Contact is never a bad thing, but it becomes a wee bit too predictable, although Nolan is a smart enough director in providing the final (a very sentimental one, I should say) twist in the story. The visuals in this film is majestic, everything is shot to a meticulously calculated level, Nolan-style. The space scenes are serenely suspenseful just like Cuaron's Gravity, but unlike the documentary feel of Gravity, there's a real gusto and pace to these scenes. You should also be prepared for the (for some, maybe) unexpected third act, it is Nolan's most sentimental and humane moment to date. And this is why Interstellar is more than just a science-fiction, it is a human drama intertwined in space and time loop.One thing that Nolan gets a bit wrong is the narrative. Nolan was never a 'warm' director, his films are filled with brilliant ideas and flair but it feels cold, it maybe suits Memento and The Dark Knight but in Interstellar he seems to have been lost in determining which of the interpersonal drama or the sci-fi that will be Interstellar's forte. The result is a rather incongruous script, intermittently cutting off the excitement of the previous scene and so on. But it is a forgivable sin, for the good is a lot more than the bad in this monumental film. At the end of the day, all I can say is that Interstellar is a grand film. It is monolithic, thoughtful, sentimental, sophisticated, visceral but also with its flaws. I wouldn't say it's Nolan's best work to date, but I daresay that this is one of the best science fiction ever released.After watching Interstellar, do yourself a favor and get lost in space and time and go back in time to see Contact (1997) and 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968) to further wonder and wander into the realms of the unknown.Because sometimes it is the unknown that fascinates us, frightens us and brings out the best in us.
__label__9 A lot has been said and heard about this movie but none of it comes even close to the experience of watching it. It has all the elements of a Nolan movie and just like in all of his other movies he decides to go a bit further. This time, he went a little too far. The story behind the movie has it's flaws. There really is no explanation of what happened/is happening. Instead you are given fragments in the first half of the movie hoping one will put all the pieces together. All in all, the first part seems a bit rushed and leaves you wondering if more could have been told. But, since the real story is not why the travel is necessary but the travel itself once the crew is off, the story really kicks in. The main part of the movie gives a great ride, pumps your blood with adrenaline from time to time and gets you emotional pretty often. The problem I personally had was that the story taking place simultaneously on Earth was less shown than I expected. A different approach was expected but that did not stop Chastain from giving the best role in the movie. The last part of the movie is dynamic and filled with problems real people would have if found in a situation like that. But the explanation given at the very end was a bit to much for me. I heard that this was called "the most scientifically accurate movie" and that physicist around the world fought over the fact was that true or not. Nevertheless, way too much theoretical physics in the end. Since I love SF movies I am willing to look past the over- the-top science part, but what really got to me was that it was predictable. From the very moment I saw a black hole in the movie I put two and two together and that kinda ruined it for me a little. Regarding the acting, as I said before, Chastain gave the most powerful performance in the movie. She doesn't have much screen time, but she sure knows how to use it. The two that actually lead the movie - McConaughey and Hathaway were brilliant. McConaughey did a little better job handling the emotions of a father with the responsibilities of a team leader and the savior of mankind. His performance was outstanding. Hathaway was good, decent, without a single word that can be said against her, but for a movie like this, that is almost completely on the shoulders of the actors, she should have done more. The others did a good job, particularly Casey Affleck who's character was a grand comparison to Chastain's. The music given it was done by the mastermind Hans Zimmer was spectacular. Just the right notes, just the right timing, just the right music. His understanding of what movies should sound like is amazing. All in all, Interstellar is a magnificent movie. It is a type of movie Nolan does best. It has all the elements of being a classic like Kubrick's 2001: a space odyssey, it comes really close to being the new space odyssey, and it will not perish with time. Still, this might be a bit too much for the average moviegoer, a lot has to be digested here, it is not a simple or easy movie to watch. But, if your braincells don't shut off and you don't expect another Die Hard movie, you will appreciate this masterpiece.
__label__9 I am starting to think Christopher Nolan is making movies specifically for his family. "Inception" was a love letter to his wife, and "Interstellar" is a love letter to his children. You have to pay attention to the secret production names and certain scenes to get the clues but the secret production name of this one was "Flora's Letter" I believe - the name of one of his daughters. And of course, the story - a father trying to save his children and also get back to them.I can overlook a lot of contrivances if I buy into the main idea and I bought into it - who would not sacrifice their own life to save their loved ones? But there are hundreds more ideas being presented here to consider:The idea that "time" is not linear, but overlappingThe idea that time is a function of gravity (which is true, actually)The idea that gravity can be used as a technologyAnd most importantly, the idea that the universe will move for loveThis movie has the best movie robots of all time, better than R2D2 even.
__label__9 At over 2100 reviews at the time of this writing, I guess there's nothing left to be said other than my opinion.I'd probably need a PhD in Physics from MIT to understand half of the technological terms in the movie, but I still found it to be rather awesome. After reading some of the reviews here, I think a lot of people are taking this sci-fi fantasy tale way too seriously and literally.Christopher Nolan's latest, which he co-wrote as well with his brother Jonathan, at 2 hrs and 48 min in length, can be ridiculously absurd one moment then quickly turn into riveting action the next.Matthew McConaughy and Anne Hathaway lead a long list of screen notables here, too numerous to mention. I did want to mention that I thought Mackenzie Foy, as Murph, the 10-year-old daughter of McConaughy was terrific in her role.I thought the musical score here was excellent, the wit and humor of the robot TARS (Bill Irwin) was on target. the special effects could be rather hokey at times but then other times were amazing, and the movie did contain a number of twists and turns which I liked.All in all, despite its' drawbacks I found this sci-fi fantasy to be a rather awesome and epic ride.
__label__9 I'd like to keep my review rather to the point.Pros: 1. its theme - dream is a fascinating topic to say the least. There are a lot of unknowns in dreamworld. 2. its plot - there are several sweet twists and unpredictable turns. 3. its edgy drive - although you know what's coming next, still you feel jumpy about it when it does.4. its rapid storyline - the story moves fast from one scene to another, making the viewers feel like on a roller coaster ride. At times, it's hard to keep up, even after watching it several times. 5. its sophistication - there is a lot of information to remember and digest. This is the very thing the modern moviegoers are after, I believe. 6. its realism - okay, pun intended. The movie explains (or at least tries to) the ins and outs of what dream is about and how it functions, some of which are very familiar with and dear to us.Cons: 1. its poor character development - although the acting was convincing enough there was not enough of character development. I wonder how many people really felt connected to the main character(s) after watching the movie. Yes, the movie talks about emotional struggles but it was more of an action film than anything else, if you ask me. 2. too many distractions - I found that the movie had more characters than necessary. They may play certain roles in the plot but they seemed more of distractions than anything else. I wish the movie was more focused. 3. a bit preachy - I noticed that the characters would explain things about dreamworld and then the exact things happen later in the movie. I'm afraid, Inception overused this trick. In conclusion, its theme is fascinating but its delivery is not without room for improvement. I highly recommend you to go and read Somewhere carnal over 40 winks, if you dig this kind of flicks. Cheers!
__label__9 Inception is written, produced, and directed by Christopher Nolan. The film stars Leonardo DiCaprio, Ken Watanabe, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Marion Cotillard, Ellen Page, Tom Hardy, Cillian Murphy, Dileep Rao, Tom Berenger, and Michael Caine. The musical score is by Hans Zimmer and Wally Pfister is the cinematographer. Plot finds DiCaprio playing Dom Cobb, a specialised spy for hire who steals ideas from the dreams of people. But one day he gets a different offer, one that will enable him to see his estranged children. To get his reward he must enact Inception, the planting of an idea in the mind of the selected target. But Inception is thought impossible and should Cobb and his selected team fail? The consequences are unthinkable.There has already been much written and pondered about as regards Inception in the relatively short running time of its life. One can only imagine what will be written and said about it in ten years time. For although it's arguably a bit too early to be talking about it being held in such high regards as the likes of 2001: A Space Odyssey, it's inescapable that Nolan's movie is this current generation's sci-fi classic. That Nolan has managed to make it accessible to the mainstream, and dazzled the eyes as much as the brain in the process, is close to being a piece of genius craftsmanship.Inception is a film that it's better to know nothing about before venturing into it, and then it asks, well Nolan asks, for your undivided attention. It's neither as confusing as some have painted it, nor does it have any tricks-peek behind the curtain type-up its sleeve. The truth is is that Inception has something for everyone; thematically speaking, and that's before we pore over the special effects that sees Nolan raising the bar considerably. As is the case with twisty high concept movies, interpretations are many, with the director rightly abstaining from discourse about his movie. What forms the basis is your basic life and death struggles, with the grey areas during and after given a clever cinematic make over. There's also meditations on grief that this reviewer personally found easy to get involved with; that of course wont work for everyone, but that is just one of many strands that Nolan dangles for the discerning viewer.If that all sounds a bit too serious for the man who has redefined the Super Hero genre, rest assured thrill seekers, Inception is also a loud swirly spectacle. The action is raucous, be it gun fights or zero gravity punch ups, Nolan has not lost the ability to take the viewer on an action fuelled roller-coaster ride, aided superbly by Lee Smith's editing and Pfister's perfectly broad photography While Zimmer's score blends electronic action pulse beats with saddened guitar strains (ex-Smiths guitarist Johnny Marr on 12 string) to craft one of the best scores of 2010. As I said, there's something for everyone here, making it perhaps one of the leading nominees for title of ultimate modern day blockbuster.Then there's the strong ensemble cast, led by a quite scintillating performance from DiCaprio. Following on from his cards played close to his chest turn in Shutter Island, DiCaprio has given 2010 two of its best lead performances. Here he gives real depth of emotion, the kind that makes it easy for the viewers to hang their hats on. His unfussy acting is easy to buy into, giving the character the air of believability, he is the glue that binds the whole film together. Murphy is wonderfully vulnerable, very much an axis in the narrative, while Levitt almost usurps DiCaprio with a neatly layered portrayal that carries a delightful whiff of duality about it. Special praise, too, for Ellen Page. Still in her early 20s, she exudes an intelligent sexiness that shines bright in a role that could have been boorishly played as a cipher in a lesser actress' hands. While Hardy provides brawny levity and Berenger leaves a favourable mark.The Matrix meets Heat and Mission Impossible, only it's written by Phillip K. Dick and Richard Matheson; or something like that. A cracking hybrid movie that's fit to grace any summer and sure to improve and enlighten with further viewings. 9.5/10
__label__9 Surrealism can appear to be ineffably bizarre, or inquisitively titillating, depending purely on the viewer's intellect. Though the realm of surrealism is highly nebulous and complex, but even a slight attempt at improvisation can sometimes go awry and open a Pandora's Box, making the task highly improbable and nigh impossible. This facet of reality may pose a handicap to the most gifted of the directors, but not to the genius of Christopher Nolan, who not only dabbles with the concept of surrealism, but also ingeniously blends it with the elements of Science Fiction in his latest wonder named Inception. Nolan created a niche for himself a decade back by unleashing a monster of a movie called Memento. He further substantiated his status by conjuring movies like Insomnia, The Prestige, Batman Begins, and The Dark Knight. His unremitting desire for innovation and uncanny craving to foray into the unexplored realms of imagination deservedly earned him an auteur tag, which gave him the carte blanche that a story-teller like Nolan desperately needs. It's highly apparent that Nolan takes every possible advantage of this liberty while filming Inception. Inception is not only dreamlike, but is a dream in itself and is superior to any other thing conceived on the silver screen. With its entwined layers, the movie for the most part serves as an unfathomable riddle and makes multiple viewing extremely essential. It incredibly does extremely well on both the humanistic as well as the technical fronts. In fact, the balance between human emotions and the elements of Science Fiction is so adequate that it's impossible to separate them. The movie is about a futuristic world where the human mind can be intercepted through dream invasion. Cobb is an expert in the art of extracting information (stealing valuable secrets) from deep within the subconscious in the dream state. His proficiency in extraction is marred by a turmoil that begins with his wife's untimely death. He is forced to live the life of a fugitive away from his children. His only chance for redemption lies with a Japanese tycoon named Saitu, who wants him to do an inception (planting information into someone's mind). In order to accomplish this unprecedented task, Cobb and his team must overcome a labyrinth of unforeseeable challenges, where even a slight miss could trap them in a perpetual limbo. Any further revelation would be remissness on my part as the plot is filled with such intricacies that even expatiation would be incapable of justifying its profundity. Leonardo Dicaprio gives a solid performance in the lead role, following his memorable performance in Shutter Island. He has brilliantly depicted the complexities and limitations of Cobb's enigmatic character highlighting his pain and mental trauma. Marion Cotillard is ravishingly scintillating as Cobb's whimsical wife, Mal. The rest of the cast has given a thorough performance with special mention of Ken Watanabe, Ellen Page and Joseph Gordon-Levitt.Inception is incredibly brilliant as a movie and is a breakthrough in contemporary cinema. Nolan's creativity and his unparalleled execution definitely make it an object of great cachet, but whether it would become Buñuel's 'Un chien andalou' or Kubrick's '2001: A Space Odyssey' and serve as a prototype for the movies to come is for the time to decide. Irrespectively, Inception is sine qua non not only for an aficionado, but also for the average viewer, who is willing to delve deep enough to savour the delight.PS: One has to imagine it to believe it. 9/10http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/
__label__9 First of all, if you are expecting the stereotypical monster movie where the point of it is just watching a monster destroy stuff and watch people running around, you WILL be disappointed. The majority of this film takes place in offices and meeting rooms.Japan just went through a nation-wide Earthquake that took more than 15,000 lives, and triggered the second worst nuclear meltdown in history, both just five years ago. And this is a clear satire on the sociopolitical events since. The film takes us through what goes on in the government when a unprecedented crisis hits the nation. It's a bunch of long meetings, finger-pointing, paperwork, and slow decision-making. It is the epitome of dysfunctional bureaucracy. On top of all that, you start to see the US government and other UN nations start to poke their heads into the matter, treating the hometown of 15 million Japanese people like just another battleground for just another war. There are no clear-cut heroes; Just a group of normal people who are experts in their own fields, doing their best to contribute and put this disaster to an end. They have to fight the politics more than the actual monster. The reality of all of this is astonishing, and completely believable. It starts to feel like a crisis simulation film. But of course, the center of it all is Godzilla:Godzilla himself is truly awe-inspiring in this film. What they have done with the monster is totally new, different from any of the Godzillas in the past (be careful of spoilers out there on the web if you want to experience the amazement). It's personally my favorite by far. Throughout the film, Godzilla is dubbed as "The truly perfect organism", "The most evolved being on the planet", and "A god". So that is the level which you should expect. His crazy power is far beyond belief, so you can safely immerse yourself into this fictional monster. The tag-line for "Godzilla Resurgence" in Japan reads: "Reality(Japan) V.S. Fiction(Godzilla)". So you are witnessing the fault line between reality and fiction.When Godzilla is turning the city of Tokyo into rubble, the Japanese don't see fiction. They see the events of 2011/03/11. The director clearly took measures to parallel the tsunamis, the rubble, and the fear of radiation to the events in real life.Put that together with the bureaucratic mess, the international politics, and terror/awesomeness of the devastating monster Godzilla; The result is this masterpiece. It's a movie clearly wouldn't have come out from the Hollywood scene.It does have it's faults (like Satomi Ishihara's cartoonish character), but the impact and significance of the film far surpasses its faults. A must-watch.
__label__9 This is a movie for the Japanese, by the Japanese, of the Japanese. And Godzilla is originally a Japanese franchise, a mass entertainment movie but made in defiant protest to nuclear weapons, or generally technologies which mankind cannot control. The new Shin Godzilla, or Godzilla Resurgence, is a movie which follows the original spirit, but with events taking place in contemporary Japan after the 3.11 Great Eastern Japan Earthquake and subsequent Fukushima Daiichi NPP incident. Live broadcasting of natural and nuclear disaster, smartphones and social media, extensive bureaucracy incompetent to handle extreme situations, discourse about the adaptability of law and constitutional order to external threats, military alliances with US and US's assertiveness towards Japan, all play part in this film. It attempts a quite realistic portrayal of the Japanese bureaucracy at work albeit with much caricature and simplification. What was seen as a reality or how it should have been handled to contain the damage is realistically portrayed in the film- which might not quite strike a chord with overseas viewers who are not so interested in the current state of affairs in Japan. However, this "too much talking" by politicians and bureaucrats criticized elsewhere is the very core of the film; it is a strong anti-thesis of a Hollywood-style movie with a superhero with a cute girl in danger saving the world and detonating a nuclear bomb all so casually. Shin-Godzilla does not have such superheroes but average people of different backgrounds working as teams; there is no romance involved at all; and the threat of nuclear attack on the city is averted (although Godzilla is nuclear-fed and bursts out nuclear laser beams and destroys half of Tokyo and most of the Japanese government). All conventional weapons of the Japanese Self-Defense Force as well as US are tested but to Godzilla they're just annoying itches; I bet even a nuclear bomb won't work for the beast as this Godzilla have probably been consuming nuclear waste as a tea snack. This Godzilla is a really devastatingly fearsome beast which made me almost shouting Nooooooooo! at the theater. This is not some kind human-loving monster who fights another monster for the sake of humans. It's not even simply evil. It's just simply unsympathetic to humans like earthquakes, tsunamis, or radiation-spills. In short, if you like disaster and panic movies, more than you like action packed comic hero movies, then you will enjoy this movie; perhaps more so if you like Director Anno's animation works like the Evangelion series, or his earlier undertakings in The Wings of Honnêamise or Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind and understand the references and similarities. Fans of past Godzilla movies might be either delighted to find subtle homages or perhaps disgusted as how it partly departs from the conventional formula of Godzilla movies.There are obvious flaws in this film. Sometimes, the line between natural realistic portrayal of the Japanese reacting in extreme disaster situations and just pure bad acting is blurred. And the main actress, Satomi Ishihara, is good at acting as daikon radish is, as we say. But Godzilla films were never about good acting. I really enjoyed watching this one at a local theater in Tokyo on the premier day. It is a very timely, originally-crafted, a bit thought- provoking, visually satisfying, and overall an entertaining film from a Japanese point of view.
__label__9 This is an excellent show that differs from the standard hack-and- slash and action-driven natures of other recent films (Independence Day 2 etc.). It is one of the most narrative-driven films that I've watched in the last 2 years. PROS:The acting was great as a whole, comprising of much seriousness and focus, typical of the exigency of a nation-wide disaster, in the top politicians of the diet.It is full of political irony, satire of the Japanese government's and bureaucracy's indecision and red-taping. There is great intelligence imbued into movie, and it shows that much research has been done prior to filming. It also shows the way in which foreign and indigenous affairs have been interwoven together in governmental decision-making. I greatly appreciate this as a whole, as the narration is full of meaning and subtlety.The special effects of Godzilla were absolutely wonderful, portraying both scale and grandeur in Godzilla's size and style. I greatly enjoyed the four main scenes where Godzilla made its appearance, especially its climax at the latter two.The pacing was fast-paced, and little time was wasted. A lot of content had been packaged into a duration of just 120 minutes. While watching, I thought that the film lasted for 4 hours, as there were so many occurrences!The style and pace also remains true to the original Godzilla classics. So is the provenance of Godzilla. CONSIshihara would not have fooled us into thinking that she is a Japanese-American English speaker!Overall, it is very dialogue-heavy. This is both a strength and weakness. A strength as there is much character development, but also excessive to the point that it sometimes can be dreary and draggy. This is the greatest setback of the film, and could have been further streamlined. Minus 1 star for this. CONCLUSION:As a whole, I rate it 9 out of 10, and will watch it again.Most people who have an appreciation for subtlety and nuance, and also of vivid storytelling will like this film.However, those who prefer a CGI roller-coaster like Independence Day 2 or 2012 may be turned off by the extremely heavy dialogue.
__label__9 This Review Contains Spoilers So If You want to scroll down close your eyes and scroll the mouse this is the warning go see the movie first or continue this is your choice.This Movie is one of the best I have ever seen great music and soundtracks And The Story Was epic Godzilla Have 3 Forms Tadpole , Turkey like one , then the one that we see in the trailers. I Did not understand what they were saying in the movie Because No English subtitles we will wait till the US release how Godzilla dies They Brings A Freeze gun A big one then they Freeze's Godzilla , the movie had meetings like those other Godzilla movies I Enjoyed this movie so much and we want more of Godzilla.RatingsMusic : 10/10CGI : LOOKS REAL :9/10Acting : 9/10Overall Rating : 9/10
__label__9 First of all, let me first say that while I enjoyed the LOTR trilogy, and admired the directorial and technical greatness of it, I'm no LOTR fanboy, and I also recognize its flaws. I'm saying this so that one understands that I'm not the type of person who will blindly speak greatly of any film of the Tolkien/Jackson series if I don't feel it deserves it.This being said, I have difficulties understanding some of the negative professional reviews which said The Hobbit is a failed attempt, and not as good as LOTR. The artistic and directing style are exactly the same (so I won't comment on this more). I also wasn't expecting to like the 48 fps since I'm the kind of guy who squints even at high definition TVs, but surprisingly, I thought it looked great in The Hobbit, and I think 48 fps is the future. There are slow moments in The Hobbit, broken regularly by excitingly over the top action scenes. Again, just like LOTR - so I don't see why one would like the original trilogy and not The Hobbit.The Hobbit is perhaps a little less dark in tone than LOTR, considering the source material which is more of a children's book, but it's clearly not a children's movie anyway, and displays many exciting and stressful moments. It also offers something more than the LOTR, that is five genuinely important villains right then and there. The dragon Smaug, in this first film, is like Sauron in the LOTR. A distant, mysterious figure who is the ultimate goal of the quest, whom we don't see much of yet, but we know it's going to be brutal. The "necromancer" is mostly alluded. Those who know the book will know who that is, and he'll surely be important in the sequels. Azog, the giant orc, is a main villain and is much more appealing than the Uruk-hai chief in Fellowship of the Ring, or any other orc villain in the LOTR series. The Goblin King also has a strong key role in the movie. And of course, Gollum, who's riddle scene with Bilbo is fantastic.Martin Freeman as Bilbo is superb and there couldn't be a better choice. The rest of the cast is pitch perfect as well. While the 13 dwarfs are too many for us to get to know each and every one of them well enough by the end of this first movie, I didn't feel it was a downer. We got to know at least a third sufficiently - and I'm sure we'll get to learn about and appreciate the rest in the subsequent films - this allows us to still have characters to discover later on.Anyway, great film. I think it's better than Fellowship, and I'll be seeing it again for sure and can't wait for the sequels.
__label__9 "The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey" simultaneously takes director Peter Jackson in two different directions. While at first glance it may seem that he is travelling over familiar ground, again tackling the fantastical world of J.R.R. Tolkien's Middle Earth after his vast and Academy Award wining "The Lord of the Rings" trilogy (2001 – 2003), he is actually experimenting with cinema itself.Of all the art forms of the world, film is the one most invested in technology; created by scientists, not artists at the end of the nineteenth century. It was only at the dawn of the last century that people like Georges Méliès realised the potential of this medium. So it is appropriate that Jackson is here breaking new ground with the very way we watch films. Instead of shooting at the normal speeds of twenty four frames per second, he has doubled it to forty eight frames a second so when viewed you have an astonishing clarity of detail as well as smoothness in camera movement with no motion stutter or blurry jerkiness when shown in 3D.However, this raises a problem for the filmmaker. For a film set in a mythical fantasy land, any poor special effects or sub-standard computer generated imagery will stand out glaringly. So the effects work from Weta Digital is all the more impressive and astounding; from skin textures to the manifold buildings of Rivendell, it's sometimes hard to believe it's not all real.The acting, from Martin Freeman and Ian McKellen to Christopher Lee as Saruman and Richard Armitage as Thorin Oakenshield, leader of the dwarfs, are all very good, inhabiting their roles with conviction and passion. Stand out though is Andy Serkis as Gollum, the famous riddle scene from the novel imported virtually word for word, and is all the better for it. Serkis has an uncanny ability to play these none too human characters with an enormous amount of vicissitude, a feat he pulls of here again with aplomb. This is primarily a visual motion picture, but the characters are not ignored and the extensive opening sequence set in Bilbo's house serves as an introduction of sorts to not just the people but the themes as well.Jackson directs with huge scope and a true feeling for the vast land he is creating, shot on location in New Zealand. The sweeping cinematography from Andrew Lesnie is suitably epic, making the landscape another character in the film.The film does have its flaws, mainly due to the fact that this is an introduction to a trilogy and not a self-contained movie; people might also find Radagast the Brown, a wizard, as played by Sylvester McCoy, to fall on perhaps the wrong side of immaturity. Still, this is a fantastic piece of entertainment and it's hard to imagine a better Christmas film.
__label__9 This was an actual 'movie'. The sequels were just entertainment takes. People forgot about the actual contents of this movie.The main part of the movie is the trust-and-suspect-relationship between (undercover agent-) Brian and Dominic with his team. This is a red line in the movie and made you want to keep watching.Somewhere along the way, you lose awareness of Brian's mission and start respecting Dominic's team. You want Brian to get into the group and be with the beautiful cute girl. It is about 'the family'.It was also about Dom being a unique character who tells you about his past, his father's race, the 10-second-race story and all. It was exactly how a movie about cars, races and action should be. Simple but powerful and beautiful.This was all build up really well. In a cool traditional (unforced) way, we were introduced with cool cars, cool people, street-racing and stuff.Before the end, a series of events happened that made you very excited. These events that happened are somehow connected and brought a sort of realistic thrilling experience. Here, the acting skills were superb and the drama in the scenes were pictured in a pitch-perfect traditional way. Brian was a lot tougher here than in the sequels where he was like Dom's slave or something.It's beautiful to see Brian and Dom at the end: Brian betrayed him and should arrest him but instead, they do the 10 second-race and don't know what to think about each other. This race was one of the most memorable scenes in film-history. After Dom hits the truck and survives the air-spinning of his car, Brian gave him the keys of his car, his car that has just also finished the 10-second-race. So, he finally gave Dom a 10-second-car and by doing that, he officially shows that he is not going to arrest him anymore.Somehow, he knew that Dom should not be sent to jail all along, even though he appeared to be a trucker-thief after-all......
__label__9 This is a great movie. Far from being superficial pulp, this movie has a complex plot. Vin Diesel's performance is tremendous; his screen presence is dominating. He succeeds in carrying the movie. Although the movie contains lots of glitz, it also tells a story that deals with themes such as loyalty and betrayal. The rest of the cast is excellent too, especially Jordana Brewster and Paul Walker. Michelle Rodriguez is as usual wonderful. It would be easy to dismiss this movie as being little more than a live action cartoon, but the movie really is full of surprises. It has several intensely dramatic scenes, some of the most incredible car chase scenes, and some deeply esoteric verbal exchanges fraught with emotion. Whether it's Vin Diesel pouting or Paul Walker being heroic, the results are same: nonstop action, intense dialog, and interesting characters, all of which together produce great entertainment. It's more than just about automobiles.
__label__9 There aren't many movies over the last dozen years to have a bigger impact on society than this one. The Fast and the Furious glorified street racing and made the Honda Civic and the other cars featured in the film must buys for teenage boys across America. The reason is pretty obvious, the movie is outstanding. The cast of Paul Walker, Vin Diesel, Jordana Brewster, and others is outstanding and the story is really interesting and unique. The plot and characters are all really well developed, creating an immersive viewing experience not often seen in movies under two hours. The cars and race scenes are fantastic and the action has you sitting on the edge of your seat. The only negative for me was some of the cinematic effects. The director tried to get cute and a lot of those effects actually hurt the scenes, not helped. Nonetheless, those few sequences aren't enough to ruin the film and the entertainment value for the movie is still sky high.
__label__9 The fast and furious will not exactly WOW you. But it will do enough to keep you entertained through out, thanks to it's excellent cast and furious race scenes. The film was a good idea and it could have not been executed any better then it was. The not so familiar director Rob Cohen did a very good job. Most scenes were well panned out and ribbon tied with it's cool racing or just brilliant acting. For that it really does deserve 9 stars.The major impact this movie had was it's pride. The fast and the furious did not get too a head of them selves and also didn't have the biggest budget to work with. But the movie reflects on a job well done. The movie is just simple plain fun, it take you for a enjoyable ride. The racing scenes were well though out, intense and very fun to watch. Some scenes were all the friends are together were witty and fun to watch too. The script was nothing major but decent. The acting was the brilliant, Vin Diesel knew and played his role very well, his role had the major impact. The plot was interesting but nothing real special. Overall the movie was very enjoyable, great racing, cool cars with a touch of action and humour.
__label__9 It begins with a spectacular action scene where three Honda Civics execute a high-speed highjacking of a cargo truck, and from there, the action never stops. With The Fast and the Furious, director Rob Cohen seeks to capture and thrill the audience with a booming soundtrack and non-stop action, and he seems to have succeeded.The film follows officer Brian O'Connor as he infiltrates a street-racing gang in order to capture the drivers of the three enigmatic Hondas, which have been terrorizing truck drivers in Los Angeles. The gang is led by ex-racer Dominic Toretto. Toretto immediately takes a liking to O'Connor, while his gang seems a bit skeptic. Toretto's right-hand man Vince is O'Connor's main problem, as he suspects the truth about his identity from the very beginning.The plot is slightly dry, as the movie incorporates many typical aspects of other films of the genre. For example, there's the fact that Toretto is the only one to trust O'Connor. The rest of his gang except for, of course, Vince, quickly follows him. Then there's the whole falling-in-love-with-the-sister-of-the-guy-I'm-about-to-get-arrested subplot. And then there are your typical problems from rival gangs and the hero's attempt to prove himself by striking against them. Yet despite the many stereotypical aspects of the script, the well-developed characters and interesting relationships save the movie from becoming just another heap of typical Hollywood sensationalism.The movie features strong acting, as the actors work well together and compliment each other's performances. This is only Michelle Rodriguez' second major performance since her film debut in the independent drama Girl Fight, which was a hit at the Cannes Film Festival last year. Not just another bad girl, Rodriguez shows a strong acting ability, which is apparent in her portrayal of Lena. Vin Diesel is also a fairly good actor who seems to be climbing through the ranks of Hollywood. Best known for his role in the failed science-fiction thriller Pitch Black, Diesel sports a memorable attitude and strong screen presence that promise to make him a contender for future stardom. Opting to cast less known, yet strong actors instead of more commercially viable ones, Rob Cohen has created a well-rounded cast, which gives the movie its fresh attitude and memorable mood.Yet it is the action scenes that are the real stars of the movie. Featuring three races and four equally spectacular action sequences, the movie delivers fast and furious action from beginning to end. Accompanied by a rocking soundtrack, the action sequences are put together by flawless editing and elaborate stunts, effectively creating a maddening adrenaline rush in any viewer.A long time producer and Harvard graduate, Cohen has achieved success a director, with movies such as Dragonheart, The Skulls, Daylight, Dragon: The Bruce Lee Story (which he also wrote and starred in) and several episodes of the series Miami Vice. He is also a screenwriter and has had small roles in some of his movies. He plays a pizza delivery boy in The Fast and The Furious.Although the slight semblance of a plot does not make this something for the serious moviegoer, the relentless action more than makes up for it. Not too long and filled with fantastic cars and non-stop entertainment, The Fast and the Furious will leave you dazed and breathless.
__label__9 Possibly the most anticipated winter film of 2008, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button is a curious film indeed. It's got an intriguing and completely absorbing story, as well as my favorite director, David Fincher, on the top of his game. With "Button", Fincher cements his place as one of the best directors alive, as his film is nothing short of magical, mesmerizing, riveting, ground breaking, and ultimately, timeless.When I first heard about this movie, I had to wonder...how was Fincher, the guy responsible for realistic, gripping, crime thrillers like Seven and Zodiac going to pull off the fantasy film of a lifetime? Armed with a massive budget, Fincher uses everything a director can use to craft the most charming and technically brilliant film of the year. It's a film to be cherished for ages."Button" has struck me like this because a recurring theme in the film is that age is only a number, and that we as people can choose what we do with our lives, no matter what our age is. What better way to tell this message than through a story where the titular character ages backwards, and must experience life in such a way? How does one fall in love when he could one day appear young enough to be his spouse's child? How does a 5 year old play with the neighborhood children when he's confined to a wheelchair stricken with old age? Fincher's epic explores our choices, lives, and the timelessness of life itself.Brad Pitt plays the title role of Benjamin Button with a certain air of likability like he always does. While I felt he did a good job with the part, he didn't have to do much...Benjamin, fittingly, is a rather quiet character (I'd be willing to bet he narrates more than he actually talks in the film). In terms of acting, the film belongs to the ladies, Cate Blanchett and Taraji P. Henson in particular. Though Blanchett may seem overrated to some, there's no denying her unrivaled talent at playing a character as complex and deep as Daisy, and she pulls it off with ease and charisma. Taraji P. Henson will warm your heart as Benjamin's mother, as she's humorous, warm, and loving, so loving that I felt as if she was my mother.The main complexity behind the film, especially with a director like David Fincher, is keeping the film grounded in reality, while maintaining the undeniable magic within. As a director, you don't want to lose too much of either quality, instead keeping a healthy balance of the two. I feel that Fincher accomplished this perfectly. He is mainly helped out by a magical score, and absolutely stunning cinematography (which immediately identified it as a Fincher film, because of the darkness and lighting of it).Despite the wonder and awe of the film, mixed with the realism that Fincher always brings, the true allure of the film is not just Benjamin's aging problem, but the romance between Benjamin and Daisy, which is beautiful. Two people in love, regardless of age, time, or place. It's one of the most compelling romances of the year."Button" is also the most technically well made movie of 2008, as the true standouts are the Visual Effects and the Makeup, both of which are Oscar worthy. Pitt plays the character at almost every age, but it's almost impossible to tell when the CGI is being used on him. You know it's there, obviously, but you can't tell it's being used. When the transition is just smooth enough for the Visual Effects to be retired, but just rough enough to use makeup, it's absolutely perfect. If you've ever wanted to see Brad Pitt look 20 again, look no further, as the effects that make our actors young again (the same goes for Blanchett) are just as stunning as those that make them older.Despite a long runtime, the film never drags. If I had to point out one thing I would've liked to have seen a little more of, it would've been more of Benjamin as a little kid, as I felt that was rushed (for those who don't know what I mean, I mean the last parts of the film when he's old, but his body is young). This doesn't hurt the film in any way, as it's just my wishful thinking.I know I've used the word 'magical' a lot in this review, and don't think it's on accident. If I could pick one word to describe David Fincher's masterpiece, that would be it: magical. "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button" is a captivating piece of art that shouldn't be missed by anyone.
__label__9 The Curious Case of Benjamin Button was a near epic film in almost the same way Forrest Gump was. I am not particularly a fan of David Fincher and his work. Yet I strongly admired The Curious Case of Benjamin Button. This film is about a man named Benjamin Button who leads much of an ordinary life under not so ordinary circumstances. The one thing that separates him from any other human being is that he ages backwards. Despite such large differences between the audience and Benjamin Button, the film finds a way to connect with a large variety of people in a way that does not seem to happen so often.The acting was very good throughout the movie. Especially that of Cate Blanchett who seems to be turning out one great performance after another. She plays the role of Daisy, Benjamin Button's real love interest from start to finish. In fact she played so well it might have been a partial downfall to the movie. Her performance out shined that of the main character, played by Brad Pitt. Although Pitt was very solid in his performance I do not believe he deserved an Oscar nomination (rather Blanchett deserved one) for his role of playing Benjamin Button. He was not a necessity to the movie and did not add much to it. He was not bad but he wasn't spectacular. Throughout though many of the different actors and actresses lit up the screen. Especially Tilda Swinton who was wonderful to watch as Button's short lived love interest. Her presence was magical and a joy to watch. I would have loved to see just a little bit more of her character.The directing of David Fincher in The Curious Case of Benjamin Button was of what I believe to be his best work to date. The screenplay of Eric Roth was written very well as he has had experience with these type of movies. In many scenes the dialog and great direction combined for some epic scenes.Ultimately I enjoyed this movie very much but something felt missing from the movie. Something seemed left unsaid that was vital. I felt that the great downfall to this movie was that Brad Pitt didn't give an amazing performance and did not take control of the movie rather Blanchett stole the show from him which made Button seem less important to me. Despite that though it this film was done very well and I would recommend it to all. Its an important story that makes us self reflect and think deeply. It displays how we need to live with our mistakes because they are part of our life. We need to appreciate what we have rather than wonder "what if...?".
__label__9 The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, when I was working at a movie theater, I had seen the first hour of the movie, but never got to finish it. I was so disappointed because this movie looked like something truly special and finally I got to rent it, while I'm disappointed that I didn't finish it on the big screen this is one of the great movies out of 2008. Brad Pitt as we know has proved to be more then just a pretty face, he's pulled in some great performances, he needed a push though to get recognized by the academy and this was the role that he truly deserved to be noticed. He plays one of the most memorable movie characters that I'm sure will be remembered for all time, Benjamin Button, he plays the character with such love and passion, he and Cate Blanchett together once again to provide the perfect chemistry and make The Curious Case of Benjamin Button a very special movie.An elderly Daisy is on her deathbed with her daughter Caroline in a hospital as a hurricane approaches. Daisy asks Caroline to read aloud from a diary containing photographs and postcards written by Benjamin Button. Caroline begins to read as the story transitions to Benjamin's narration. In 1918, just as the people of New Orleans are celebrating the end of the Great War, a baby boy is born with the appearance and physical maladies of an elderly man. The mother of the baby dies shortly after giving birth, and the father, Thomas Button, takes the baby and abandons him on the porch of a nursing home. Queenie and Tizzy, a couple who work at the nursing home, find the baby. Queenie decides to take the baby in as her own. Over the course of the story, Benjamin begins to biologically grow younger. In 1930, while still appearing to be in his seventies, Benjamin meets a young girl named Daisy, whose grandmother lives in the nursing home. A few years later, Benjamin goes to work on a tugboat on the docks of New Orleans for Captain Mike. While in Russia, he begins an affair with the older, married Elizabeth. Eventually, she breaks it off, only leaving him a note telling him she was glad they met. In 1962, Daisy returns to New Orleans and meets Benjamin again. Now the same physical age, they fall in love and move in together. They experience the 1960s together, in large part blissfully but increasingly aware of Benjamin growing younger while Daisy grows older. Daisy gives birth to a girl, Caroline. Benjamin, believing he cannot be a father to his daughter due to his reverse aging, and not wanting to burden Daisy with having to raise two children, sells his belongings, and leaves the proceeds to Daisy and Caroline. He leaves them both and travels the world.If you get the chance, I highly recommend The Curious Case of Benjamin Button, this movie was just incredible in it's scope, story, setting and actors. David Fincher took what could have been just a small treasure and made it into something incredible. This was one of the saddest love stories I have seen in a long time, we really haven't had anything too special when it comes to a love story in film, we did have Slumdog Millionaire in 2008 as well, but The Curious Case of Benjamin Button carried it's love story throughout and made you really pity this couple that you know can't have much of a future together. Brad Pitt and Cate Blanchett are absolutely beautiful in this movie along with a great supporting cast, The Curious Case of Benjamin Button is a movie not to be missed.9/10
__label__9 There came a point, about half way through this film, when I emerged from the world of wonder on screen, took stock of my emotions in that instant, and realized that yes, by God, I am LOVING this movie.I didn't really expect to, of course -- although certainly, I hoped for it. With such an incredible cast, an able director at the helm, a story of Bryan Singer provenance and the inclusion of some of my favorite, if lesser known, X-types (Darwin! Tempest! Havok!), I was eager to see this beloved band of merry Marvel mutants redeem themselves after the massive failures of X3 and X-MEN ORIGINS: WOLVERINE.Which they do. And how!One thing that the avid comic fan must do when approaching this movie, however, is to divorce themselves utterly from almost all established four-color X-Men continuity. Oh, some bears up, but by and large this is a whole new origin story, a reboot of epic proportions, and yet it is a retcon so cleverly done, and one that offers up a such a delicious mélange of complex relationships and sensible motivation, that all of the many discrepancies inherent in having Mystique on the side of good or having Moira McTaggert a CIA agent simply do not matter. Speaking of McTaggert, Rose Byrne is both comely and convincing in the role, and almost every other actor is perfectly, one might almost say forcefully, cast. McAvoy brings a kind of laddish charm to Charles Xavier that he mixes nicely with both decency and naïveté, and Michael Fassbender's nascent Magneto is relentlessly, even heart-breakingly, compelling. Their chemistry is electric -- theirs' is one of the most multi-faceted and sincere bromances the screen has seen in a good long while.The younger cast all impress, though particular praise must go to Oscar-nominee Jennifer Lawrence as the petulant but pitiable Raven/Mystique (The Academy Awards have been good to young, hot X-chicks; let us not forget that Rogue herself, Anna Paquin, won for THE PIANO). Former child star Nicholas Hoult is also outstanding as the troubled Hank McCoy, and perhaps the most surprising kudos must go to teenage dream Lucas Till, who conveys the particular anti-social asshole-hood of the turbulent Alex Summers very convincingly indeed.The biggest letdown in the movie, acting-wise, is January Jones as Emma Frost. True, she is appropriately ravishing, there can be no denying that, but she lacks the the zing of the written character. There is very little intelligence, snark, or even personality behind her interpretation of this most intriguing of mutants; she's just kind of Stand There and Look Pretty -- which, for one playing Emma Frost, is something a travesty.The only other weight under which this movie really labors is the fact that it is a prequel, and it therefore suffers from the feeling of inevitability that besets all such endeavors. Anakin Skywalker HAS to go Dark Side. Bilbo Baggins HAS to find the One Ring. And Magneto HAS to turn against humans; Mystique HAS to join him; Xavier HAS to end up in a wheelchair. With these definite plot developments looming, their eventuation is bound to be a bit of an anti-climax.And yet the fun part about X-MEN: FIRST CLASS is the journey it takes us on to get us there. Offering up plenty of surprises, some kickass action sequences, mighty fine special effects, sly humor and a killer cameo, it is without doubt the best comic book movie of the year – nay, decade – thus far. And considering how overcrowded that list is, this is really saying Something.Huh. A prequel that does not, in any way, suck.Amazing, isn't it?-- Rachel Hyland, geekspeakmagazine.com
__label__9 What stands out in this movie (besides the look of some of the mutants), is the clever way in which all the pieces fall into place as a prequel which cements the backdrop and tone for the previous X-men offers. This one however, stands above them though for the consideration and tact that has gone into developing these understandably complex characters. Resulting in a more complete movie experience.The leading cast do a brilliant job in giving you a sense of their conflict with ingredients such as prejudice, ignorance, a sense of belonging and bitter revenge giving the film a more humane feel than a lot of dramas allowing you to connect with the characters more easily.The special effects- lets not forget, are top notch as expected, but surprisingly very in-keeping with the film and doesn't take away from the other elements of it. The violence is clean but present, pitched right between a young and adult audience. There's also a decent amount of ironic humour thrown in, which, considering the party tricks on offer (by that I mean the powers and peculiarities of the mutants), just comes and goes naturally without feeling forced as like a lot of comedy moments in films of late.Bottom-line, this is a well-constructed, well acted Marvel film. I wasn't totally convinced beforehand, casting James McAvoy as the young Xavier, a full head of hair and northern accent doesn't seem the best fit after all. I can say that he fully realised that role and showed his range in playing a more commanding lead. Michael Fassbender has great screen presence and does a good shift as the Magneto to-be and Mr Bacon adds another interesting element to the story. All the supporting cast give a solid performance with everyone focused on the exciting job at hand and no weak links.Easily worth the cinema admission and thank god they didn't make it in hit-and-miss 3d, there's just no need! The best of the X-men franchise.
__label__9 Xmen: First Class is simply fantastic. Strong emotion and explosive action. The acting is top notch. Delivery from every actor is at it's best, more so from Mystique, Beast, Xavier and Magneto. The story is more character based than action, however the action sequences are still superb. Personally i'd have liked to of seen it being a 15 and have a more adult but it wasn't a big issue. Also some more background story from the bad super's would have been good but again this wasn't too much of an issue and would leave some nice room for upcoming xmen movies. I don't want to say too much but to break it down... Go see this film no matter what you are into. There is something for everyone. 9/10 easy
__label__9 The X Men movies followed a similar trajectory to another Marvel property "Spiderman"- the first movie was a surprising blast, the second built on the merits of the first to deliver ever bigger and better thrills, but the third just knocked the wind out of the sails. And so like any self-respecting franchise would do, you go back to the beginning and start all over again- well, in this case, much much further back to the beginning.The director with the unenviable task of rebooting one of the premier Marvel superhero titles is Matthew Vaughn, best known for subverting the genre last summer with the cult favourite "Kick-Ass". Here Vaughn tucks away the subversion for some mainstream summer entertainment and boy does he do a bang-up, and I would say, kick-ass job reviving the franchise.Sure, it probably isn't as fresh as the first "X Men", nor as insanely brilliant as "X2 United", but Vaughn exceeds all expectations in creating an origins story that captures the heart of what the series was all about. But to do so, Vaughn has gone way back to the 1960s when the United States and Russia were locked in a Cold War and the prospect of World War III came so imminent with the Cuban Missile Crisis.Vaughn in fact begins his story much earlier with a prologue that establishes the childhood days of Charles Xavier and Erik Lehnsherr. Whereas Charles grew up in an affluent but isolated stately home in New York, Erik was locked up in a concentration camp in Poland. It is there Erik first meets the Auschwitz doctor Sebastian Shaw (Kevin Bacon), who kills Erik's mother in plain sight of him in order to get him to demonstrate his powers. The contrast is key- it is ultimately their childhood circumstances that will have far-reaching repercussions on their divergent paths in life later on.And so while Charles becomes an Oxford academic on genetics and envisions a world where humans and mutants can live in harmony with one another, Erik is plotting his revenge against Shaw and cynical of the very utopia Charles cherishes. But when the fate of the world hangs by a nuclear thread, the two find a common enemy- together with the CIA no less- in Shaw and so put aside their ideological differences to fight alongside each other.It isn't as simple as a union of conveniences- Charles and Erik fast become firm friends, and they band together to start a school for mutants. Among those recruited are the brainbox and soon-to-be-Beast Hank McCoy (Nicholas Hoult), the sonic-screamer and soon-to-be-Banshee Sean Cassidy (Caleb Landry Jones), the plasma-blasting and soon-to-be- Havok Alex Summers (Lucas Till), as well as the winged Angel Salvatore (Zoe Kravitz). Shaw also has his own army- icy Emma Frost (January Jones), teleporter Azaael (Jason Flemyng) and the tornado-spinning Riptide (Alex Gonzalez).There certainly isn't enough time to give each of the multitude of characters a back-story, but at least Vaughn sets aside space within the spectacular action-packed climax for each of them to show off their unique superpowers. Rather, Vaughn and his frequent collaborator Jane Goldman (working off a story by Sheldon Turner and Bryan Singer) give weight instead to the central relationship between Charles and Erik, emphasising on the bond between the two close friends and their eventual descent into bitter enemies as Professor X and Magneto.It is in the intimate character drama between Charles and Erik where the movie achieves its greatest payoff. Some of the best lines in the script are reserved for the witty interplay between the two characters, and are especially thought-provoking in their arguments for and against war and diplomacy. James McAvoy and Michael Fassbender also share great bromantic chemistry with each other, and their excellent performances- one the dashing yet dangerous individual, and the other the charming and intelligent fellow- allow the friendship between their characters to be the rightful emotional heart of the film.But to bring home the raison d'être for their disagreement is the budding relationship between Hank (aka Beast) and shape-shifting and future-Mystique Raven (Jennifer Lawrence). Their constant struggle to accept their extraordinary looks (Raven's blue form and Hank's hands- for-feet) or correct their perceived abnormalities so as to better fit into society crystallise the very humanistic message of the X Men series- that of embracing those who may be different from us, but who have every right as us to belong in our society.Hoult and Lawrence are also outstanding in their own right, and the movie benefits tremendously from strong performances all around. Kevin Bacon is all smarmy menace as Shaw, while Rose Bryne brings a welcome touch of humanism as the rare human in the film to accept these extraordinaires. Veteran character players James Remar, Michael Ironside and Ray Wise add a touch of class to the proceedings, while fanboys will delight over a killer cameo in the movie. The person who deserves credit for pulling it all together is Vaughn, who so deftly mixes fact and fiction to create an awfully plausible version of alternate reality. Ingenious was the move to situate the might-vs-right dynamic between Charles and Erik against the backdrop of the Cold War, the events of history providing both significance and gravitas, and Vaughn stages the events with terrific pacing and much aplomb. With "X Men: First Class", Vaughn has breathed new life into a franchise that ran aground with its bland and formulaic "Last Stand" and an otherwise unremarkable "Wolverine" spin off. Admittedly, the storytelling could have been smoother, but Vaughn's reimagining of the X Men universe is more than robust, especially with an intelligent tightly-plotted script, outstanding lead performances and thrilling action sequences. It may not match the brilliance of Bryan Singer's first two films, but this is perhaps as close as it gets.
__label__9 Out of all of Marvel Studios' films, the 'X- MEN' franchise is one of my favourites. This is because of the great special effects, explosive action scenes, hot babes and the frequent comedic moments. When I heard that a prequel to the series was going to be made, my brother and I were really excited because we knew that it was going to be super AWESOME! And it was. But let's face it, the movie did have it's flaws, it being the lame writing or the not- as good as X Men 3- special effects, even my favourite mutant, BEAST had his flaws, but I'll get to him later.PROS: The great parts about this movie was the near- perfect casting. James McCavoy is great as always as the awesome Professor X, as he showed us a side of the character we have never seen before! He was charming, cool and very courageous! Michael Fassbender was also good as Erik Lensherr (MAGNETO) and we also get to see how he became the menacing Magneto in the later movies. It's just his accent that jerked me off. Other than that, he did a good job. Other actors that were good were January Jones as EMMA FROST and Kevin Bacon as SEBASTIAN SHAW, he was a cool, likable yet believable villain. The writing was great, I loved the idea of including the clip about young MAGNETO from 'X MEN' in the beginning of the movie. The direction was very awesome, with the director being Matthew Vaughn.CONS: I'm going to keep this part as short as possible because I don't want you to be turned off by the negative aspects and focus more on the positive. I guess my biggest flaw for this film, in my opinion, is the video game-like special effects. I don't know what it is, it's just that it didn't look as cool as the previous films, it was just too noticeable that it was CGI. Like I said at the beginning, the dialogue was a bit crappy, for example, at the end of the movie when MAGNETO is called by his real name and says 'Actually, I prefer... Magneto!', which my friend then turned to 'Actually, I prefer... Potato!' The make-up for BEAST kind of sucked, but it was still very well done.Overall, this isn't a bad movie, it's a good movie! It's a fun Blockbuster Summer action film to enjoy with your friends, so if you're walking into the cinema, hoping to see something like 'THE KING'S SPEECH'. Then you'll be disappointed. But see it anyway... it's the X MEN! See the movie! 9/10
__label__9 Director Matthew Vaughn is back for a more conventional super hero movie after wowing audiences with last year's "Kick Ass." He has redefined the "X-Men" series with a very stylish work of cinema as attempt two at creating a prequel is successful with "X-Men: First Class." Like "Origins" there are a plethora of characters that the audience has to worry about, however, with the smart use of time and space Vaughn develops the roots of various mutants with a fluid pace. James McAvoy ("Wanted", "The Conspirator") and Michael Fassbender ("Inglourious Bastards","300") set up the best on screen matchup of the year with their respective portrayals of Charles Xavier (Professor X) and Erik Lehnsherr (Magneto). The film commences as Erik is separated from his mother and killed by a man named Sebastian Shaw (Kevin Bacon, "Frost/Nixon"). This is followed by background of a young Charles as he befriends a very familiar character, Raven aka Mystic (Academy Award Nominee Jennifer Lawrence, "Winter's Bone"). After this brief exposition, the audience is taken on a nonstop thrill ride as the mutants influence the Cold War. Erik embarks on a path of vengeance to kill Shaw. Since their last encounter Shaw has started his own mutant army and has a very dangerous right-hand woman, Emma Frost (January Jones, "Mad Men"). Meanwhile, Charles and Raven are tracked down by a woman named Moira MacTaggert (Rose Byrne, "Bridesmaids") for their mutant expertise. Everything is connected in one way or another as the 1960s setting makes the film a cool cinematic rebirth to a new "X-Men Trilogy."The Good: Director Vaughn reinvents the film series with a very well written script and a dark old school spectacle. Combining the classic feel of the 1960s and the Marvel comic book guise with McAvoy's ingenious, sexy interpretation of Professor X and Fassbender's rugged vindictive portrayal of Magneto makes this the best superhero film of the year. The casting of two big name congenial actors as antagonists (Bacon and Jones) along with giving their motive multiple purposes is smart cinema. Cinematography finishes it all off with a mixture of "Mad Men" flare in a comic strip.The character development of Angel Salvadore (Zoe Kravitz, "It's Kind of a Funny Story") is very irritating, failing to produce a motive for her later actions. This can be attributed to the fact that even though Vaughn does a good job juggling the plethora of characters, it is inevitable that one falls through the cracks. Also, the fast pace of the film foreshadows a climatic ending which in actuality fails to impress after the interminable build up.Vaughn is following in Christopher Nolan's footsteps as he transforms his second superhero comic into motion picture form. He uses more of a comic book approach than Nolan casting to perfection and creating one of the best prequels to ever be made.
__label__9 When The Hunger Games was first released almost four years ago, I had no idea it was going to be the successful franchise it is now. I was fourteen when I watched the first film and began reading the books and each film just got better and better. This is definitely the case with Mockingjay Part 2, the thrilling and emotional conclusion of the franchise. I would also say that this is the film that, I think, is the most faithful to the original book of the same name. There were so many parts in the film that I remembered reading about when I first read the book three years ago. Whilst I was reading the books, I didn't know how the cast and crew were going to make a film adaptation in a creative and successful way. Nevertheless, they managed to do it. Jennifer Lawrence returns, for one last time, as Katniss Everdeen, the main protagonist. In Mockingjay Part 1, Katniss is suffering from Post Traumatic Stress Disorder and is finding it difficult to cope without Peeta Mellark, her former tribute and love interest from District 12, as she doesn't know if he's dead or alive. She meets the President of District 13, Alma Coin, who is unsure that she is the right person to be the face of the revolution due to her struggles. However, Katniss proves her wrong and films short films, known as 'propagandas', to distract the Capitol and to persuade the people of Panem to join her fight against President Snow. However, things don't all go to plan because, when Peeta is rescued, he has been hijacked and tries to kill Katniss. This is because he's been hijacked which means that the Capitol has corrupted his memories of her to make her appear violent or a threat to him. Now, Mockingjay: Part 2 picks straight up where Mockingjay: Part 1 left, with Katniss recovering from her injury. Despite her struggles, she is still willing to be part of the fight against the Capitol but President Coin refuses and sends her to District 2 to film a propaganda, much to her annoyance. She is desperate to kill President Snow for everything he has done and goes on a rogue mission to join her fellow soldiers to take over the Capitol. President Coin is not happy with this and sends Peeta, who still has negative views on Katniss and continues to have violent acts of rage towards her. However, he is slowly recovering from his disordered views of Katniss and he begins a game called 'Real Or Not Real' to help him know the truth. This was one of my favourite parts in the book as I thought it was a clever way to help Peeta understand his disordered image. Director Francis Lawrence has stated that this is the most violent out of all The Hunger Games and he's not wrong. When, fellow tribute, Finnick mockingly states, 'Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the 76th Hunger Games', it truly is like that. The Capitol itself is like an arena with thousands of deadly traps and bombs, known as Pods, lying on every corner. Katniss and her team of soldiers, one of which includes friend Gale Hawthorne, must avoid all of these traps in order to make it to the President's mansion. I had read the books so I knew what was going to happen but I was still shocked at how brutal certain people's deaths were. One specific death scene had me in tears when I first watched it as the character was one of the most likable in the series and the character died in such a violent way. There was also another death scene which had me in tears but wasn't as violent as it was so sudden. These deaths may come as a shock to people who haven't read the books. There are several new characters played by some of the best actors. Despite being only on screen for a short time, they still manage to pull it off. In fact, every actor in this film was amazing, especially Jennifer Lawrence. She is perfect as Katniss and really understands her character well. Throughout the films, I think she's definitely matured and grown into the role. I've also got to mention Josh Hutcherson as Peeta. In The Hunger Games and Catching Fire, Peeta had a charming and sweet personality but in this film, he's lost that charm due to the Capitol torturing him. He goes from being violent one minute to being really emotional. Josh really managed to make me feel sympathy for Peeta. I think this is a great conclusion to one of the biggest film franchises and I would definitely say that it's the best of the four films as there's plenty of violence, suspense and emotional moments. With brilliant acting, intense scenes, amazing special effects and great directing, this is one of the best book- to-film adaptations I've ever watched.
__label__9 The Hunger Games series has finally come to an end with the fourth and final film in the franchise and serves as a continuation of Mockingjay - Part 1. Part 2 makes up for Part 1's lack of action by being the darkest, most violent and grittiest Hunger Games film, even with the standards set by the previous films and succeeds in ending the saga in a suitably epic fashion. Mockingjay - Part 2 finds Katniss leading the rebels to the Capitol aiming to kill President Snow. The Gamemakers have rigged the entire city with lethal traps to make sport of their deaths, making it the most dangerous Hunger Games yet. If Part 1 was too slow or lacked adequate action, Part 2 is heart-pounding from beginning to end. The action scenes are more violent than anything seen in the series yet, making any deaths even more gut-wrenching. Fans of the series will find it hard to watch at times, and if you're like me, you'll be gripping your seat or hiding behind your shirt for a good portion of the film. The Hunger Games: Mockingjay - Part 2 ends one of the most exciting and relevant franchises today in a gripping, emotional and brutal way, and it might be the feel-bad movie of the year.
__label__9 The kids & I were trying kill some time while Mom had a baking party at the house so we went to this with zero expectations. I was very pleasantly surprised. Nicolas Cage does a great job at the sorcerer who is looking for the "Prime Merlinian". He is the sorcerer who will inherit Merlin's powers. Our hero (David) is of course that person. The fun is in Cage's ability to be annoyed with the kid and like him at the same time. The CGI is enough to enhance the story but not overwhelm it. All four of my kids (ages 4-11) liked it. Some parts might be a little scary but not too bad (a dragon clomping around is all). Fun family flick.PS I also liked that the hero held a door for a girl. I pointed that out to my boys who need to learn that.
__label__9 I saw this movie at the world premiere and I had the pleasure of congratulating Jay and Nicolas on this great Disney achievement. I have always been a big movie goer since a young age and enjoy a broad range of films. As of late Disney has not brought forth any movies I have loved till now, and between Jerry Bruckheimer, Nicolas Cage, Jay Baruchel, and Alfred Molina the movie had great chemistry. The music and the fight scenes have Jerry Bruckheimer splashed all over them (can be compared to Pirates of the Caribbean). As for Nicolas Cage, many people I spoke with before and after the movie didn't believe he could pull off the roll of a "Sorcerer," yet his perception of Balthazar Blake as a wise, cunning, determined, witty, heart broken wizard gave the movie such positive energy and strength. Jay was perfect as Dave bringing his classic, nerdy, innocent character, to the table as seen in many of his other films. His character represents Disney's persona of good, and paired with Cage's interpretation of Balthazar there is a plethora of hilarity,and anticipation. Alfred Molina playing the apposing force, Maxim Horvath, provided the movie with just the right amount of darkness to cater to the younger and older generations. Through out the movie Molina's character, Horvath, has a twisted mix of respect and hatred for Cage's character, Balthazar, and the two of them feed off the energy very well to create a great amount of conflict and excitement. These conflicts help detract from the typical corny air that many Disney movies have, because they usually cater to a younger audience. The Sorcerer's Apprentice does cater to a younger audience, but also provides enough action, suspense, and humor to cater to those of the older generation, making it a great family movie. So to anyone who is questioning whether or not to see the film I highly recommend it!!! It is a great modern spin of the Disney Fantasia classic with, comedy, action, suspense, and romance, that makes it appreciable to all. Between the awesome cast, Jerry Bruckheimer, and Jon Turteltaub, the movie represents the real meaning behind the magic of Disney.
__label__9 Literally every second of this movie is worth watching ! it's even better than the first one. I love the visual effects, maybe that's why I loved this movie so much, I mean the nature in Underland, the time castle, much effort was put on this movie and it was worth it . I wasn't expecting that much of it, since I didn't expect a good story. But the story of Time is incredible ! And those little seconds of his are so cute, I liked the idea of the white queen not being totally good by lying in her childhood and being part of the reason that made her sisters' head big. I wish there were more parts for the Cheshire cat, I love his grin :D. But, finding The Hatter's family could've taken more light, the hatter just finds them and that's it. We should've got the opportunity to watch more of them after they come back. Still, this movie's became one of my favorite fantasy movies .
__label__9 Director James Bobin (Muppets 2011 & 2014), along with writer Linda Wolverton (Alice... 2010) once again bring color, amazing CGI effects and easy storytelling (although a bit complicated at times) to Lewis Carroll's book. Skirting Depp's current personal affairs, he once again captures the Mad Hatter, this time with more believable reserved flair enabling him to slip easily into his shy yet disturbed character. Successfully sharing the primarily (and believable) green screen set is the wonderfully adverturist Mia Wasikowska "Alice," Helena Bonham Carter as big head Red Queen "Iracebeth," Anne Hathaway as the less then attractive floating princesses "Marana," quirky Sacha Baron Cohen as "Time," Matt Lucas as the lovable Tweedledee / Tweddledum, and the wonderful voices (to name a few) of Timothy Spall, Ed Spellers and the late Alan Rickman. "Alice Through the Looking Glass" isn't rocket science, it's just a good family film filled with colorfully special effects, a familiar storyline and good acting - regardless of what many a film critic are saying. If anything didn't quite fit into the fantasy environment of the film, it was the closing credits song by vocal artists Pink. Where the film places one firmly in a fantasy environment, Pink's song is too current, thus pulling one away from the established dream-state. Regardless, when Awards time rolls around, "Alice..." should fill its glass with recognition.
__label__9 First of all I was hesitant to watch through the looking glass partly because of bad reviews but mostly because my favorite director Tim Burton didn't direct this movie. I finally watched through the looking glass and I was pleasantly surprised! Beautiful graphics and visuals and a touching plot about the importance of not taking those you love for granted...and not taking time for granted. This movie shows how we all learn from our pasts and that we cannot and should not want to change the past. It seems a majority of the critics could not put two and two together to understand or appreciate the message this film conveyed. Shame on you critics ... curiouser and curiouser. ..why half of you can't comprehend. Maybe lacking neurons and brain cells ? Wonderful job done by the actors and actresses as well as the director trying to add some spice to a worldly well written classic by respected author Lewis Carroll
__label__9 If you were a fan of the first one, I believe you will find some enjoyment in this movie. It had the same feel of the first one, but went in a different direction than the first. "Wonderland" was more or less a reboot to introduce the characters and setting to a fresh audience, while "Looking Glass" explored more of the history of the characters and did a bit of expanding on some of the characters (e.g., The Mad Hatter, The Red Queen, and The White Queen). Alice travels back through Time (yes, time is a proper noun because Time is a person) to save The Mad Hatter's family, and in the process, she discovers more and more about the history of the characters listed before. I believe it was a very interesting way to follow the Alice in Wonderland that came out a few years ago.
__label__9 Shrek the 3rd was a great continuation of the other 2 shrek films. When I watched this film, I got exactally what I was looking for. A new adventure and a load of laughs. Many people have criticized Shrek because of Shrek not being so fun. I thought the movie was great, and it really didn't have much flaws. What was wrong with it? He didn't end up being king, and that's what people wanted? Come on! He's an OGRE! He does exactally what he said he was always going to do. Live in the swap and live his life. What's wrong with that?!?! There was great action that took place in the film. It wasn't only fun, but it was humorous as well. Who doesn't laugh when Fiona and her gang is attacking the guards, and snow white falls asleep and they all trip! That was classic and many new ideas go into play in this movie. This movie was as good as it could be. We have to think logically. How many producers can make a 3rd sequel, and it becomes better than the rest? None sadly! Sometimes 1 or 2 can do it, but 3 can be a bit rough. The Producer did an excellent job for making a 3rd, and it not being a complete disaster. Not everyone is perfect! The movie is great if you love humor and shrek. If you don't, you're going to criticize the entire film.
__label__9 I took my daughter, who is eight years old, to see this movie with a friend and she liked it a lot. she thought it was funny. Even though she saw the first two, she doesn't remember them, so she wasn't comparing it with the first two. The vote is my daughter's - a nine out of ten. I loved the first Shrek movie, but disliked the second. Since I had heard that this one wasn't going very good, I went with pretty low expectations, and was pleasantly surprised. I actually laughed out loud at a few parts and found that the story flowed. I never once thought to glance down at my watch; I was pretty well entertained throughout. Not that the plot was ingenious, on the contrary, it was the same old story, but it had some smartly humorous lines, which I appreciated. I would give it a five out of ten.
__label__9 This movie is incredible. After seeing the first movie I have to say we will definitely in the oncoming movies see a rising Arthas fall to evil. Incredibly well done. A look into the lives of our famous Warcraft characters had me immersed and I was in love with the cinematography. I cannot wait to see Medivh & Sargeras in the movies. I wonder when we will get to see the drama between Illidan & Malfurion. I can't wait for the next one so excited. Thank you for an incredible movie. This movie is incredible. After seeing the first movie I have to say we will definitely in the oncoming movies see a rising Arthas fall to evil. Incredibly well done. A look into the lives of our famous Warcraft characters had me immersed and I was in love with the cinematography. I cannot wait to see Medivh & Sargeras in the movies. I wonder when we will get to see the drama between Illidan & Malfurion. I can't wait for the next one so excited. Thank you for an incredible movie.
__label__9 I may be one of the flock, but I am a big fan of the Terminator franchise. This movie was appropriately delivered to fans of the franchise more than the prior 2 sequels. Arnold was Arnold and genuinely looked like he was having fun with the role. The story to me was pretty well written and despite lots of turns along the way, was engaging. There was plenty of comic relief. The battle scenes play homage to the aesthetic and look of the future wars in the 1st two movies.Emilia Clarke did a pretty good job of playing Sarah Connor although she might have been a little softer looking than Linda Hamilton, I think the justification of the plot makes you understand a little more of how and why she is the way she is.I'll tell you what they didn't do in this film. They didn't go and screw up the source material like the Star Trek reboots have. This story plays out a different scenario but the characters both old and new are familiar and this movie was done very well with respect to the source materials. If you are a fan of the franchise, you'll feel like you are getting more of what you might have had to imagine way back in the 1984 film. You'll enjoy it. Any fan of T1 and T2 should go and see this and add it to your library.
__label__9 I don't understand all the haters. I often wonder why some people even bother going to movies. They over analyze and criticize every movie. I however love to enjoy movies at face value. I won't lie, to date no terminator movie after T2 has even come close to making me feel exited watching it the first time the way T2 did, until now.I thought this latest movie was fantastic, and I was not alone. I saw a preview screening with about 20% normal people and 80% press last night. It was obvious throughout the movie that the audience was very into the movie and at the end it got a standing ovation. What does that tell you? I could not wait for what came next.It won't surprise me a bit if half those reviewers that stood and clapped give the movie a bad review because thats what they do, or they think they are expected to do.Don't listen to reviews or the haters. Go see this movie while you can on the big screen. If you liked the first 2 movies this movie is very much more along those lines than the other sequels. Arnold being old fits great! The story is fantastic. The effects fantastic. Casting fantastic. For the first time in a long time I actually felt like I saw special effects I have not seen before.This movie deserves your attendance. Go have fun! I may go see it again this weekend.
