__label__8 I had the rather intense privilege to view James Cameron's much anticipated $400 million budget return to the directing scene, Avatar, at the Empire Leicester Square in London.Where to begin! The visuals in this pieces was groundbreaking. He did it with the Terminator series and then Titanic, so one would expect Cameron to deliver... and HE DID! The visual are by far some of the sharpest CGI I have seen. You could almost say that there is a disquiet that follows Cameron's soul, as there is no other possibility of this strong and intensified quality. Its production design and visual effects are both noteworthy and it will get its praise upon official release.What it was lacking that really should have shaped the movie is its character/story. I was expecting a complex and believable plot, but was left with a movie with mostly strong visuals. What most sci-fi lovers desire is mind-bending philosophies, fantasy and exploration and limitations of our or outer species. If it was not for this factor, I would give this a 9.5 vote.Avatar will be a success, not only because of Cameron's legacy, but by very intelligent and viral marketing. Avatar have had a powerful marketing technique that assembles other successful blockbusters, such as The Blair Witch project (you all remember it), The Dark Knight (Joker invades the world) and also, the current production The Artifice (the-artifice.com) that is intelligently targeting the market.Kudos to Cameron, Avatar is one of the (if not The) movie of the year. I could get in trouble for sharing this with you guys so early, so please click Yes on "Was the above comment useful to you?" as a thank you. ;)
__label__8 I am sure my comment will be lost in a sea of blue but anyways here goes...Just attended the Advanced Screening at my local "Event Cinema" BCC in 3DNow this movies graphics are gorgeous, everything is so real, the 3D just adds to the effect beautifully without distracting you.From a technical standpoint this movie is amazing, just the detail on the Navi's faces are amazing, they feel more real then their real life counterparts!Without giving anything away about the story, the plot itself is very solid, very character driven and perfectly executed by Jim, safe to say this is his best original story since "The Terminator" and "Terminator 2" and is definitely one of his best movies, so good it ties with T2 which is my most favorite movie of all time...So for those of you who have not seen this yet... WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?!5/5
__label__8 The more I think about this movie, the more I like it. This is strange, considering my low expectations. The first film was fun, and I was very happy to see swashbuckling returning to movies, but I never really bought into the script. I wasn't convinced that pirates were some sort of blood-bound "race", and I was powerfully confused by the distance between and physical relationships of various locations. But, still good fun. The second film just kind of made me mad; I loved the ending, but it was just one example of how much it was a standard sequel: every single quirk of the first film was referenced, every single character had to return, and it HAD to be structured - nay, plotted - like Empire Strikes Back. This included re-introducing the Han Solo-Leia love story where the female lead wants the anti-hero, just to appease all the screaming Johnny Depp fans. It begged to be liked, but aside from a great score, great effects, and some very funny moments, it just came off as trite.And then we get At World's End, which has everything you could possibly want in a pirate fantasy film: Legendary ships riddling each other with cannon fire in a whirlpool, screaming buccaneers swinging from one ship to the next, sword-fights on crow's nests, and all that in about fifteen minutes. The rest is an admittedly convoluted story that is much more clearly plotted than the second film, while still taking breaks for letting us spend time with characters we weren't so sure about last time, but are once again fond of. Maybe it's Geoffrey Rush as Barbossa, or the overall simplicity of the plot, but it just worked, and I had a great time.I was legitimately surprised and concerned at what the plot did with our heroes and villains, and was very satisfied with everyone's status in the end. I guess I wouldn't mind seeing another Pirates movie now, but I kind of think everything that needs to be done is in this film.I can't wrap up without mentioning the very nice abstract stuff Verbinksi and co. did with the journey to Davey Jones' Locker. It takes guts to do really surreal stuff with a $300 million Happy Meal blockbuster, but they really did some new, interesting things with their bottomless bag of tricks.A- Curse of the Black Pearl: B+ Dead Man's Chest: B
__label__8 The Pirates of the Caribbean-movie serials is probably one I'll never grow tired off. The characters are fun and great, always adventurous and spectacular to watch. It's really too bad that this time they felt the need to make things even bigger, more complex and conclusive than the previous two movies. Really not needed. In my opinion the first movie "Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl" is still the best because of the reason that it's simple, fun and choices to be purely entertaining. They already went wrong with this approach during the second movie; "Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest", when they put in more new characters and different hard to follow plot lines. "Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End" goes on in the same trend as the previous movie. There are more new characters and as far as the new many plot-lines are concerned...well let me just say that after a while I just gave up trying to understand the movie and just let the movie take me away with its visuals, humor and other entertaining elements. And this movie regardless should really be able to take you away on a roller-coaster-ride of pure entertainment.No doubt in my mind that this movie could had become the best one out of the series. It had all the potential and budget for that, now if they had only cut down about halve of the script...Most of the plot-lines seem redundant and are actually far from believable because they contradict from what happened in the first two movies. The many betrayals among characters and side-picking became really confusing after a while, till it reached a point when you just didn't knew who was fighting for what. But like I said before, after a while you just stop caring about it and simply enjoy the movie for what it brings you. It all is also the reason why the movie is now nearly 3 hours long. Now the movie is not as good and entertaining as the first but maybe just slightly better than the second one, because of the large scale of this movie. The movie is definitely big. There is no lack of action as some people claim there is. There is just as much action as there is in the first two movies, only difference this time is that the movie is nearly 3 hours long and therefor the movie also has some more talking-sequences and slower moments in it.The movie is also big with its musical score by Hans Zimmer and he actually succeeded in composing a new great theme for the movie. In its action moments the movie gets definitely uplifted by its musical score.The action sequences are definitely well constructed and at times pure eye candy. So are the special effects, although I feel that the second movie was still better on that. It seems like they tried to overdo things this time and I'm mainly talking about the end battle, when it comes down to its special effects, by putting in some complex shots. No matter how good CGI is these days, you still see that it's CGI. Most roles get extended in this movie. Marty, Tia Dalma and even Jack the monkey and Cotton's parrot. But of course the movie still remains the Jack Sparrow-show. Really one of the best characters in recent years, all thanks to Johnny Depp, who provide the movie with its biggest laughs and most hilarious absurd moments. He still plays the character as good and fresh as he did for the first time 4 years ago. You can't just ever grow tired of Jack Sparrow. I was also very pleased to see Geoffrey Rush back as Barbossa. His role was bigger which allowed Geoffrey Rush to shine even more. Bill Nighy was also as good as always as Davy Jones. Orlando Bloom's and Keira Knightley's acting also has really improved over the years. I was actually surprised to see how much of the movie Keira Knightley carries this time and how well she does this. Even in the sequences with Geoffrey Rush she does. She also gets to do more interesting in the movie when it comes done to action. In a way she has taken over the Will (Orlando Bloom) role in this movie this time and Will himself gets pushed more to the background this time compared to the first two movies, which really shouldn't bother most people, unless you're a teenage-girl of course. She handles both the action- and comical sequences really well. And even Keith Richards shows up in an already classic cameo as Jack's father. But some role also got narrowed down to my regret, such as Jonathan Pryce's and Jack Davenport's and lets not forget the Kraken.Still, I really wouldn't mind seeing more Pirates of the Caribbean movies in the future, if needed with new actors and characters, as long as Johnny Depp stays as Jack Sparrow. The serials still have more than enough potential and haven't dried up yet.8/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
__label__8 Just finished viewing a private screening of the final chapter of the Pirates of the Caribbean and can confirm it does not disappoint.The original is still the best but 'At World's End' completes the trilogy on a high note.Johnny Depp continues to shine as Captain Jack and Chow Yun Fat makes a huge impact as Captain Sao Feng. Academy Award winner Geoffrey Rush returns as Barbossa and his exclusion from most of the 2nd movie was the reason it was my least favorite out of the whole trilogy. Keira Knightly and Orlando Bloom complete the All-star class and do an OK job as their respective characters.The whole film build up to the final battle which is one of the finest since the Lord of the Rings. If your a Pirates of the Carribbean Fan, this one is not to be missed.8/10
__label__8 I did only have modest expectations of this film as the trailer reminded me a bit to much of Dune. Really surprised to find a film which had a good plot line (albeit cynics will liken it to Avatar-lite), well acted, reasonable characterisations, brilliant visuals and a surprisingly good hero figure in Taylor Kitsch. I saw the preview screening this morning - don't really care how much it cost to make - what I found was a big budget film that I really enjoyed from start to finish. My advice - don't follow the cynics and naysayers - see it for yourself. I will normally not go see 3D films (they give me a headache) but the 3D wasn't too intrusive on this one.
__label__8 I saw this at a preview screening in London.I never read any of the books so only had a vague synopsis of the story just from trailers which didn't really impress me much. Well, this turned out to be quite a blast. Its an enjoyable if very cheesy Sci-fi fantasy blockbuster. It has the spirit and energy of Flash Gordon including its own outrageously nonsensical but fun premise. It isn't as cheesy as that film but there is a definite lean towards it. The story is quite a novel mix of Planet of the Apes, Conan, Red Sonja, Avatar, Star Wars and Superman (yep this is a superhero movie too). We even have a western thrown in the mix at the beginning. I was going to say there isn't anything original here but how can I? This story was published in the 19th century so from that perspective, I can now see a lot of plot influences deriving from this in later SF/fantasy films.A lot of money was spent on this movie and it shows. The special effects here are pretty awesome. Not necessarily ground breaking, everything on screen has been done before but its all smoothly done at a grand scale though not quite to the scale of the Star Wars prequels. Effects that stood out for me were John Carters "Hulk" like jumps, Martian sky ship battles, green martians (as good as Avatar), and a cute monster dog sidekick that almost steels the show.Another major feature of the film was the cinematography. Its quite spectacular and for a barren dead desert planet, its surprisingly stunning.One of the biggest surprise for me was the 3D. Its post conversion which most often results in poorer quality than films which are filmed in 3D from the start. But an exception can be made here. This is hands down the best 3d conversion film I have seen. The 3d depth was outstanding and really shows its power in numerous landscape and action scenes. This is probably the second best 3d live action film I've seen overall (either filmed in 3d or post converted) and I am normally anti-3d when it comes to live action films. Taylor Kitsch who plays John Carter has just about enough screen presence portraying a likable anti hero with a punchy attitude and a sense of past history haunting him. Its a Han Solo type role but he plays it more brooding. There is even a Princess Leia and the age old storyline of helping a Princess to fight a war but each with their own agendas. Its all very clichéd, yet still enjoyable. As much fun as I had with this, there is no denying that there is a lot wrong with it too. I could pick on flaws and lack of logic all day long with this film some of which are smack on the head stupid and some elements I desperately wished more or better development on. The dialogue while often funny, also often dive bombs into cringe-worthiness (much like a Lucas script), the developing romance was very disjointed and sometimes embarrassing (think Anakin and Padme levels of embarrassment). The 3 way war politics was not very clear, major characters not fleshed out enough and there's a whole lot of story loopholes. Yet there is still a lot more fun to be had to override those flaws. I have a feeling that book lovers will be disappointed because I can detect a lot of back story is missing here and key characters seem very short changed on their development and motives (particularly with the green martians) which I am sure would have been fully fleshed out in the book. However, I reckon if you enjoy films like Thor and GI Joe, you'll have a great time with this. This wont be a classic or even a cult movie but it is a satisfying piece of cinema escapism. And its enough for me to want to read the books!
__label__8 Not a movie about Noah Wyle's character from the show ER, but rather one based on a book I've never read titled A Princess of Mars. Originally going to be titled John Carter of Mars, the movie apparently dropped the 'of Mars' to "make it more appealing to a broader audience" and this film is supposed to be the origin story "about a guy *becoming* John Carter of Mars" - this probably explains why we finally get the originally-intended title of 'John Carter of Mars' at the very end.The man in question is John Carter from Virginia, ex-Civil War soldier who lost his family and is now gold prospecting. Proceedings are rather slow-going in the beginning of the film, although it's necessary set-up for what's to come. Things don't really get interesting until Carter's transported to Mars, which is known as Barsoom by the inhabitants there, who are 9 to 15 foot tall four-armed green aliens with tusks called Tharks. Thanks to the lower gravity of Mars, Carter has enhanced strength and can leap great distances. We even get a montage devoted to him discovering as much. Some Tharks discover him, the least hostile of which is one named Tars Tarkas (voiced by Willem Dafoe), who winds up thinking Carter's name is Virigina due to miscommunication. Subtitles are used up until Carter is eventually able to understand the Tharks and we hear them speaking in English. At one point he comes to the rescue of an alien dog named Woola, who is extremely loyal/fast and becomes his constant companion. Carter also finds an ally in Sola (Samantha Morton). Eventually he meets the Princess of Mars herself, Dejah Thoris, after having rescued her (it's what he does). And this is where the real story begins.As John Carter and Dejah Thoris, Taylor Kitsch and Lynn Collins reunite (after the rather ho-hum affair that was X-Men Origins: Wolverine). Kitsch fits the role of the long-haired hero well (although he is saddled with some rather dodgy dialogue at times). His reactions to the bizarre situations, customs, etc that he finds himself having to deal with are pretty good. He is well-paired with Lynn Collins, who manages to make Dejah actually very human (like when she's nervous about the presentation she's about to give when we first meet her in the city-state of Helium...though, oddly enough, nobody there speaks with funny high-pitched voices like you'd expect). She's certainly the prettiest thing on Mars, but she's also very smart, as well as able to handle herself in a fight. She's equal parts scientist and action heroine. Kitsch and Collins play off each other very well, sharing both humorous and touching moments between them. Also good is James Purefoy as Kantos Kan. Although it's not a big role, he manages to make the most of it and is easily likable, as well as amusing at times. Mark Strong, meanwhile, continues to be the go-to guy for playing a villain.The story is not exactly easy to follow if you aren't paying attention. There's a lot of names of things to keep track of, as well as some twists and turns here and there. The film feels like it kind of rushes things a bit towards the end, as it has to wrap up stuff. Given the running time, you wouldn't think things would need to be like this, but it seems the makers realised their movie was reaching the limit of its runtime and there was still some stuff left to address at the last minute.The effects on display are as dazzling as Dejah's blue eyes. The thought and effort that has gone into designing/creating the creatures, the ships, the costumes, etc is fully on display on the screen. The music helps too. While this movie might not be everyone's cup of tea, it does offer something a bit different in place of what could have been a rather paint-by-the-numbers affair. Yes, some parts are predictable, but there are also some parts that you might not expect. Don't let the trailers fool you, it's not just all mindless action. There is some actual real story going on here (provided, of course, that you can keep track of/follow it). Recommended for anyone who's looking for a slightly off-kilter sci-fi film.
__label__8 I am a man of obsessions. For months, a movie I hadn't seen was the thing. Not Peter Jackson's THE HOBBIT, not Joss Whedon's THE AVENGERS, not even the upcoming Sam Mendes directed James Bond movie SKYFALL (which I'm excited about but it hasn't really sunk its hooks into me yet)...No, it was Andrew Stanton's JOHN CARTER.My excitement was not the universal feeling. Disney advertising had dropped the ball and the trailers seemed lackluster to most. Yet something within directed me toward it like a compass points to True North. There was something special about it, something just out of view in the trailers that wouldn't let me go. I trust my obsessions, always, but at some point I got to feeling a bit exhausted and just wanted to know if I was right or maybe a total loon.I've now been to two advance screenings of JOHN CARTER.And? Holy Living Thark! The bar on science fiction and fantasy movies has Officially Been Raised.JOHN CARTER is based on Edgar Rice Burroughs' A Princess of Mars --a novel first published a century ago. I expected to come out of the movie with my head full of comparisons to all the things Burroughs' imagination inspired: STAR WARS, AVATAR, FLASH GORDON, etc. Understandably so, as I'm much more familiar with all of them. That didn't happen. Put simply, if STAR WARS is a kids' science fiction movie franchise that adults enjoy (and it is), then JOHN CARTER is an adult science fiction movie that kids will enjoy.CARTER is such an immersing experience. Every moment reveals something new about Mars; about the exotic alien races and cultures that call it home, or about their individual characters. James Cameron's AVATAR showed us a world we've never seen before and it was wondrous to behold, but Andrew Stanton's JOHN CARTER is a movie so rich with detail that it left me feeling like I had been somewhere. JOHN CARTER feels like nothing so much than as if David Lean had made a science fiction epic of love and war set on Mars.This movie has a confidence to it you won't be expecting. It's unafraid to linger over the characters, and give them time to breathe and reveal themselves. My favorite decade for movies is the 1960s, and JOHN CARTER has some of the epic adventure movies of that time running through it like a seam of gold. There's a bit of LAWRENCE OF ARABIA in there as I alluded to before, and perhaps a touch of ZULU and SPARTACUS is mixed in with the Martian airships and predator cities. Old fashioned storytelling magic and 21st century movie sorcery have combined into a film that's a pulp sci-fi masterpiece.To the ERB faithful: please relax. Yes, there are changes from the novel; no, they are not the arbitrary changes made in inferior movie adaptations where the filmmaker just wants to do his/her own ideas. Every change is made to tell Burroughs' story or reveal some aspect of Burroughs' characters in a way more befitting a movie instead of a novel.Going into this, I had absurdly high expectations. A friend of mine told me he was worried the movie wouldn't live up to them and that frankly I was starting to sound a little crazy. Well, the movie went and exceeded my expectations. I love it, and give it a 10/10. I'm definitely going to see it at least six times in the theater, and will finally buy a Blu-Ray player just to watch it at home.I realize this review sounds over the top. That's just how excited I am about the movie. Perhaps in a previous life I was an ancient Greek by the name of Hyperboles? Anyway, see the movie. I guarantee that even if you don't like it as much as I did, you'll see where I was coming from with this gushing review.
__label__8 Well, your friendly neighbourhood superhero is back! Its a different time now for Peter Parker as Spider-Man now becoming an icon,hero and idol for the people of New York. Consequently, it makes Parker become egoistic and arrogant and thus lead to many conflicts that he need to overcome as a human and a hero.The good aspects about this film are : 1-The action sequences are stylish, brilliantly done and intense as hell. You need to see to believe it! The used of CGI here deserve an applause.2- For a superhero flick, it balance its heart-pumping action scenes and well written drama with flair.3- The creation of Sandman and Venom are very memorable and astounding.4- J. Jonah Jameson and the Maître d' (brilliantly played by Bruce Campbell) really steal every scenes their in! Pure classic comedy moment.5- The ending. A bit cliché but still sum up the trilogy quite nicely. It also provide hints that the future of this franchise is still bright.The negative aspects of this flick: 1- The pacing. It felt rush ( not as smooth as Spider-Man 2) and there is little character development, especially from the villains. I felt for Dr.Ock from spider-man 2 far more than Sandman and Venom combine. The beautiful Gwen Stacy doesn't contribute much to the film. A waste of time for her actually. They should save this girl for the next film to produce more tension for Parker and Mary Jane.2-Lots of crying and disco dancing. The scene in the club, where Parker (his dark side) expose his talent in dancing ( Fez from That 70's Show comes to my mind immediately when i watched this scene)is overlong. They should just cut it a bit and add more character development.3-The climax. It so predictable and the dialogues from the female reporter are cringe-inducing . " Oh, the brutality." Enough said.Overall, its still an enjoyable movie. I enjoyed it better than Spider-Man 1 but I think it cannot top the brilliant of Spider-Man 2. I hope if there is a Spider-Man 4, there should stick to one villain in that movie. It really makes all the different.
__label__8 Let me start by saying I see some reasons why fan boys are upset, and some of the issues people had problems with. Yes, it packed a ton of things into it, but it made it feel more like an event. I have read comics in my life, mainly Spider-Man and Batman comics... I'm familiar with the original comics origin story of Venom and all of these characters before they hit movie screens, but I still can't understand some of the hatred and criticism that the film got. There are issues, which I'll list below, but the film has a strong emotional core with its characters that shines through here.The dramatic elements, according to many reviewers and critics are done poorly here, but that's not the case. It's easy to feel the hurt Peter feels when MJ has to break some horrible news to him, you see his anger when he realizes Marko's connection to his murdered uncle, Ben, and the roller coaster that is Harry throughout the film even lets you sympathize with his position because you see, for the first time since the first film and done even better here, a more "innocent" side to Harry, though it doesn't last long.Also, I did read plenty of online reviews prior to viewing and many of them gave me the feeling that the only way Peter's anger and 'dark side' is shown is through a dance number in a jazz club, which is not the case at all. You see Peter going overboard and saying and doing hurtful things all throughout the mid-section of the film, causing problems for himself and other characters and fully descending deeper and deeper into his own vengeance and anger. A lot of this part of the film is lightened with comedic elements, which is true. There is indeed a dance number, but there's a point to it and plays into a more emotionally charged scene later on. If you've read anything about tonal shifts or the film being called a "mess", I'd say don't believe it. It's done with class and maturity to make it a bit more fun, yet it doesn't take away from the more emotional and mature scenes that come prior and afterward.Of the fight scenes, all were done well. Sandman's scenes throughout are usually the most beautiful and interesting, while Venom is done quite well too. One thing I did sorely miss was the use of the plural speech from Venom. A "We're not Brock... we are Venom!" line might have been nice. Its a minor grievance though, and all of the action scenes are done quite well, specifically the first and last.The film is flawed, yes, but it's also quite fun. This is a small list of issues that are present throughout the film that are result of mostly lazy scriptwriting/storytelling, but didn't ruin the movie, at least for me.Issues: - Harry's Amnesia: Amnesia always feels like lazy writing, in almost every case (except maybe Memento). In this case, it's fairly weak but its forgivable as it allows you to see a side of Harry that hasn't been seen in a long while. It opens him up to more feelings and truly allows for sympathy when things go bad for him, and particularly the end. So, to me, it was quite forgivable as I saw why they used it.Suit's Introduction: Yeah, the odds of the meteor crashing right next to Parker, a.k.a. Spider-Man are quite slim. The comic origin is out, of course, but perhaps tying Jameson's astronaut son from the second film by having his ship be attacked by the suit and need rescue from Spidey would have been a better way to incorporate the suit... it would have allowed for another action sequence, tie in MJ's ex-boyfriend and tied the symbiote in a little more neatly. However, perhaps such a sequence would put the budget or time limit too high.Butler: He mostly kept his mouth shut through the first two films, but in this one he delivers an important message to one of the characters that changes the course of the film. It's slightly forgivable because he's given a more humanized part in this film, but it's still a display of some lazy writing.Aside from those issues, I disagreed with many of the other critiques that I've read. I don't find the comic aspects disheartening, they were done well, but from the reviews I thought it would be light on the serious and dramatic content of the films, ie, I wouldn't be emotionally invested in the characters this time around. That turned out to be false though, at least it was for me. The special effects were great, the action was great, the acting was great... but what really holds this film and makes it all feel worth it is the emotional attachment to its characters and the way it builds your feelings for them. All of these characters are flawed, some very seriously, but you care about what happens to them all and brings the first two films full-circle in terms of pretty much everything. It wraps up what's been done in the previous two and does some of those things even better.
__label__8 **mild spoilers*** I thought this was a fantastic movie. All of the plots seemed well balanced, the screenplay was outstanding, the score really set the tone for the film and created atmosphere, the acting was at it's best from everyone, the action was outstanding, and overall it was a great, amazing, extraordinary film! The more evil spidey was simply fun to watch. It was a nice change of pace for the character and it really gave the movie its own separate kind of feel. It was different than the first two films. And that was a very good thing.This is also the funniest spider-man film. There are a lot of hilarious moments in it, and the best part is that they don't take away from the slightly darker tone of the film. They make it even more enjoyable than it already is.I loved the villains. Sandman was great, the New Goblin was great, and Venom was just absolutely spectacular. Topher Grace in an evil role was genius.Speaking of which, Topher Grace, who plays Eddie Brock, has some really awesome moments as well, and the transformation sequence from him into Venom was just great. The final battle scenes at the end with him are some of the best scenes in the series. He did an outstanding job in his role.Probably my favorite scene is the jazz club scene, where the more evil and edgier Peter Parker shows off his dancing talent (and later gets a little violent with some people). It was funny, shocking, and just plain entertaining. The evil Peter scenes are some of the best in the movie.The special effects were outstanding to say the least. There were, as usual, some parts here and there where they weren't as top-notch as they could have been, but for the most part, they were outstanding.Some people argued that the film was a little too long, but I think it was too short. It could have been even better if there were more Sandman, Venom, and evil Spidey scenes. Maybe one more Goblin attack as well. But what we got is still very awesome! Perhaps there will be an extended edition in the future, like what they did with Spiderman 2.There are only two flaws I can think of in the film. The first is that there is, in the middle of the film, a long period of time where we don't see Peter Parker in his Spiderman outfit. Now I didn't mind this, I thought it was great...but the problem is that this period of time might affect my future viewings of the film. Still, the first time I saw it, i loved that section of the film, I thought it was gorgeous.The other flaw is that in the final battle, some more fighting with Venom would have been nice. I mean there is a lot of fighting in the final battle between Spiderman and Venom, but the character of Venom was so well done in the movie that even more fighting would have better satisfied me. If it were also a little more violent, that would have been better too because it could have given the darker tone more justice. There is still a chance of an extended edition, though, and the final battle is still awesome.All in all, this movie was an outstanding ride, a true masterpiece, and one of the most entertaining movies i've seen in a long time. I'm not sure whether this is my favorite spidey film, but it probably is. It's an amazing movie, well worth my time. Go see it! I give it a 10 out of 10.
__label__8 Honestly, when is the last time you saw a decent Disney Animated feature? No no, PIXAR does not count. I'm talking about just a regular ol' straight laced Disney flick. If your like me, I'm sure your answer falls somewhere in the mid 90's. But isn't that a shame? What happened to the totally awesome Disney movies? If your excuse is because of technology, i assure you that your wrong. You can make a great animated movie without resorting to actual hand drawn art. But where is that old feeling we all use to share? Well i can tell you this much....i already knew that Disney had something special here, mainly because the VP of PIXAR jumped ship and decided to fund this project. The first time anyone from PIXAR has ever done so, let alone the freakin VP. So needless to say, Disney finally had enough, and pulled out all the stops for this one.I kid you not when i say this...."Tangled" is easily the best Disney Animated feature i have seen since "Aladdin".....yes, it is that good. They finally let go of trying to find something new and different and settled with what was working for them almost 20 years ago. It's a princess tale that easily falls into the same category with the classics. So wait, does that mean i'm comparing it to the likes of "Snow White" "Cinderella" and "Sleeping Beauty"? You damn right i am! Sure the storyline is cliché' and relative to other Disney classics, but it felt so good to see and feel something that helped recall your childhood. But other than those minor speed bumps, the movie is spot on. The animation is spectacular, and you would be a fool not to see it in 3D. The musical sequences didn't seem forced and were never boring. And i can almost guarantee you that it will snag the best song award at the Oscars. I'm just glad that they didn't work the story around the music, which is what a lot of animated features tend to slip up on. But this one did an amazing job of hybriding them together.Bottom Line, ladies and gentleman, this is the Disney picture you have been waiting for. It will definitely win your heart and please audiences both young and old.
__label__8 At the moment, "Simple opinion" certainly will do without the husks and garbage. If that's all Weedon cleaned, then what am I? Number ninety-eight, "The Avengers: The Age of the Altron"It seems that in advertising, neither the cinematic Marvel, nor their apogee - "Avengers" certainly do not need. Especially, the second part of them. But, if you somehow managed to distract / not notice / or just sleep in the ice of the Antarctic for the last twenty years, then the easiest way to describe what you are going to is to go to the amusement park. At what this is the second, improved version of this, which came last time.The only claim that can somehow put up the "Era of the Altron" - the presence of the previous film, which though not on purpose, but leveling part of the effect. Nevertheless, we have already seen something similar, and we approximately know what to expect. A group of diverse heroes forced to unite for the common goal, a charismatic villain at the head of a crowd of faceless clones ... It's not that we would not see it, or we did not want to look again ... And it looks like Joss Weedon knows all the pitfalls in itself a sequel. It is no longer necessary to tell the stories of the main characters (just like last time, actually), and we do not even need to disclose the reasons for their interactions, and therefore the movie tells the stories of the characters who were deprived of attention last time. Altron is a jerk, he sings songs, runs over himself and avengers, sincerely not understanding why they are needed, if he is - all such in vibnium. And the Scarlet witch and Mercury, having lost the status of mutants, contributed a huge share of diversity to the action and history, not to mention that there are not many sympatians in the frame.The narrated story serves as a flip bridge to the further development of the cinematic universe, but it was done in a large and effective way, being a worthy continuation of the first part. Joss Weedon thus secured us with you, yourself and the co-owners of the need for the third part and the story of the same story for the third time. Wisely, considering that the history of cinema has repeatedly proved that the same approach in a trickle does not work in ninety-five percent of cases.
One way to hide the roughness and surpass the original is an action, and it was brought here with a surplus. Beginning exactly with what the original ended - the interaction of the Avengers as one, one-piece team, shown by one shot, the second part thus hints that there will be even more. And, believe me, "The Age of Altron" does not disappoint, and the viewer will receive a huge amount of beauty and effects, the performance of which is honed in all the previous parts of the universe. Well, we will not forget that this is Marvel - there will be plenty of humor, and even the hammer of the torah will become a real joker.The second phase of the cinematographic universe is coming to an end, and the result of its evolution was presented to the audience. This is no longer a novelty, but no one promised, honestly on the heart. "The era of the Altron" - an ideal blockbuster, which is the result of the development of entertainment movies.This is not a streaming production, it's not an attempt to keep up with someone, or to prove to someone something - it's a one-off product, quality and collected manually. Not creativity, not invention, not art. Quality of manual assembly, that's all.
__label__8 ...Phase 2 of the Marvel movies had been batting .500 for me. I did not enjoy Iron Man 3 or Thor: Dark World, but really dug Guardians of the Galaxy and Captain America: Winter Soldier (Cap 2 is probably the best film in the entire Marvel series!)Based on that, I don't think I am surprised that I came out of Age of Ultron with mixed feelings. Overall it is a solid entry, but it is by no means flawless. The good:Really liked the intro of Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver. I liked the horror-movie tropes tied to Scarlet Witch (she is a Witch afterall!) and Aaron Taylor-Johnson's Quicksilver had a lot of personality.The action, of course, was great. And Hawkeye actually had something to do in this film. The Vision: They did such an incredible job building mystique around this character.The Bad:Wasn't a fan of that extended scene at the Farm. That stopped the movie cold. I know some people say "It was necessary for character development", but the previous films had done such a poor job of giving Hawkeye any character that seeing him on the Farm did absolutely nothing for me.The romance: Ugh. Talk about forced. I like Ruffalo's Banner. I really do. I was surprised how much i did in the first Avengers, cause i'm usually not a Ruffalo fan. But I just did not see any chemistry between Ruffalo and Scar-Jo. And where was the build-up to this? Last time we saw these 2 together Hulk was trying to smash Black Widow. Marvel needs to work on their female-story lines.Ultron was kind of a lame villain. I don't think there was enough build-up for him. He just sorta showed up and was evil.Overall: Is it worth seeing in the theatre? Yes of course it is. But it is not without its flaws, and sure doesn't top Cap 2.
__label__8 The reason I gave this an 8 is because it is truly a sensational film, the best yet out of the whole franchise. The acting is milestones ahead of what it has been in previous HP films (especially from Emma Watson), the storyline and characters are much more layered and 3D, the sets and special effects are breathtaking, and the score is absolutely gorgeous. As a stand-alone film, I would happily give this a 10.BUT, of course, it is not a stand-alone film - it is the follow up of many other films, and is also based on a book so rich and layered that it could not possibly compete. While this is (IMO) the best film so far, it is also the most unlike the book, and if you know the book and what follows in the Deathly Hallows, you can't help but notice gaping holes in the plot where crucial information has been left out. This film features only 2 of Dumbledore's collected memories - the book shows quite a few more, some of which are important in Harry's hunt for the horcruxes and may have to be dumped somewhere unfitting in the next two films, just to get them out the way (for example, the memory featuring Hepsibar Smith and Hufflepuff's cup). Also, fans of the book will no doubt notice that some of their favourite scenes have been taken out: the funeral at the end, the aftermath of the final Quidditch match (the involvement of Quidditch in this film was entertaining, but seemed pointless as it lead to nothing), and most importantly the battle at Hogwarts between the Death Eaters and The Order/Dumbledore's Army. What I'm trying to say is, if you have not read the book you will probably be able to enjoy this film for the beautiful and intense piece of work it really is - but unfortunately, if you have read the book then the comparisons will come flying at you from the very start, whether you like it or not, and there are definitely more here than there have been in previous instalments.Half-Blood Prince is definitely the darkest of the books, and this has proved to be the darkest film - the ever present sense of tension or even impending doom is hair-raising, and every scene featuring Tom Felton (Draco Malfoy) had me almost breathless, even if he does look about 30 now. He is definitely one of the best actors of the HP films. There are also some painfully tear jerking moments throughout: including a surprise attack on the Burrow, which was heartbreaking, and the scene in the cave where Harry has to force the liquid down Dumbledore's throat - that is the first time, in any film since he started, that I've really appreciated Michael Gambon as Dumbledore, which I imagine will be the same for many of you.In short, definitely a must see - but book fans must accept that the films have taken their own turn now, and I imagine that the changes in this one will lead to some very major differences in the two Deathly Hallows instalments. The films could never be the masterpieces that the books are, but this one sure comes close....mischief managed.
__label__8 Overall, I enjoyed this movie. I've always felt that Daniel Radcliff does a great job playing Harry. He has very expressive eyes and as Harry is a character who internalizes a lot, that is a great thing. I think I'll start out with my gripes and end with the praises. The two major gripes I've had with the entire series are the way that Kloves throws in many elements from the books, but never explains their significance (like all the clues in PoA-the map, Crookshanks chasing Scabbers, the shrieking shack, the "grim", etc but never explaining how they all tied into the truth of Sirius), or putting Rita Skeeter into the GoF movies but never explaining that she was an beetle. Throwing in so many elements without explaining their significance has made the films feel rushed and confusing. The other gripe I've had is that I've often felt that the filmmakers try to imitate similar situations they've seen in movies (particularly particularly teenage issues) rather than seeing the deeper meaning in the source material. Emma Watson seems to overact quite a bit and the filmmakers praise her for it. I often feel like she is imitating someone else rather than reacting to the situation in any given scene. One example that comes to mind in this film was her laughing at the joke about Dumbledore's age. She laughed more than the moment called for. The filmmakers also misinterpret Harry and Hermione's friendship and give the shaft to how close Harry is to Ron. The final scene of this film is a prime example. They have Harry and Hermione having a very intimate discussion while Ron is just sitting off to the side. I wonder if Kloves even likes Ron because often Ron just sits there; in the books Ron is a very active character who has certainly had a few arguments with his two best friends, but is fiercely loyal to them. I didn't like the scene where Hermione was crying over R&L; she talks to Harry about his feeling for Ginny and hers for Ron. They have never had a discussion like that in the book. Harry always trusted Ron and Hermione with his life and would have gladly sacrificed himself to save them, but he felt uncomfortable talking to them about more personal issues. He related better to Ginny, Neville and Luna on the issues because they had gone through dark times in their lives he could relate. I feel the filmmakers miss foreshadowing opportunities. They missed the ministry turning on Harry and Dumbledore by only touching on Fudge's attitude in GoF, they didn't put in the chocolate and the scene where Ginny reminds Harry about the fact that she was possessed by Riddle in OotP (which would have been a good set up for the romance in HBP, and they did not mention Dumbledore's Army, the diadem in the RoR or Hufflepuff's cup to set up the student rebellion or the hunt for Horcrux's in the final film. I wish they could hire Peter Jackson to adapt the fantasy aspects and Richard Curtis to adapt the relationships. The over doing the close friendship of Harry and Hermione while shoving Ron off to the side feels like the filmmakers pandering to what they think an audience would like rather that trusting the source materials loved by millions around the world. It's like the crappy romance between Susan and Caspian. About the infamous attack on the Burrow: it could either be an attempt at gratuitous excitement or be there to foreshadow something in the final film. If it was there for the first reason, than it is pointless and idiotic of Kloves and Yates; it had nothing to do with the rest of the film and the time the scene took could have been filled with a number of great scenes in the book. If it was there to foreshadow the final showdown between Bellatrix and Molly Weasley, it was potentially genius. They focused a lot on Molly's reaction to the burning house. Now, on to the things I liked. For the most part, I think the acting was terrific. Daniel Radcliff is really growing as an actor and I think he will have a long and successful film career once the Harry Potter films are complete. I thought he did a great job showing his fear that Ron would die in the poison scene. I also got a chuckle when he came from hiding the book in the RoR and kissing Ginny and Ron asking him if he and Ginny had done it. I also see Rupert Grint having a long career. He has great comic timing. I was laughing hard when he was under the influence of love potion. Both Daniel and Rupert have priceless facial expressions. Evanna Lynch is terrific playing Luna. Her delivery is awesome "I often sleepwalk in this hallway that's why I wear my shoes to bed." Classic!!!. Bonnie Wright is doing well capturing the feisty Ginny. Despite the fact that the Harry/Ginny first kiss wasn't as exciting as it was in the book, I was impressed with the kiss itself. I also enjoyed the Ron/Lavender moments more than I thought I would. They were very entertaining. I say fire Emma Watson and her bulging eyes, over active eyebrows and over acting and do some make-up on Cave and have her play Hermione. Lavender is a silly Character in her relationship with Ron. Cave could have easily overdone it and been extremely annoying, but she captured the character perfectly and I was entertained by her performance. I also have to compliment Gambon and the improvement in his portrayal of Dumbledore this time. I thought he was terrible in the previous films, but this time he seemed to capture the demeanor of the Dumbledore in this film. There were a lot of good moments and performances in this film, I just think the filmmakers need to tie everything together better.
__label__8 Let me say this. Half Blood Prince as a movie alone was very good. It stands it's ground as a film better than any of the others of the series. But only as a film. And only because there are so many parts to a film. This installment obviously stepped everything up a notch: the cinematography, the special effects, the darker score, the improved acting, etc... But the key element which was boosted this franchise into world-class fame, is the story. And in this one, it's just not there. As a fan of the books and having had no SERIOUS gripes with any of the other films, I must say i HATED the screenplay for this one. Everything that made the book amazing was ripped from the film, and instead replaced by annoying large quantities of romantic subplot. Yes, there is romance in the sixth book but not shoved down your throat. JK Rowling masterfully crafted a novel that was perfectly balanced. The romance was there although it didn't detract from the main plot and at times was intertwined with the larger goings-on at hogwarts. In the movie the romance takes up most of the screen time. Not to mention the ending of the film was brutally butchered.So much time could have been detracted from the silly romances to focus on more important things which were completely ommitted or deliberately changed. The ending is extremely anti-climactic and once it's over it'll leave you in your seat thinking "it's over?"My final gripe with this movie is that it really should have been PG-13. If you've read the novel then you know the subject matter is MUCH darker and the story would have been done greater justice with just a higher rating(and a better screenwriter, yes i'm looking at you Steve Kloves).Overall as a movie i'd give it an 8 out of 10.But as a HARRY POTTER movie it gets 4 out of 10. And that's pushing it.Well heres to 2010 to see how they screw up the finale. Oh wait, they already did. I didn't know there were 8 years at hogwarts...
__label__8 This movie wasn't as safe or simplistic as most of the superhero movies out there. It's really sad to see movies that are mindless and the kind of basic and lowest common denominator are getting a lot of praise, while emotional and challenging movies like BvS isn't getting much despite being more inspirational. This movie triggered something that other Hollywood blockbusters aren't willing or able to reach, but some people don't even want to see this. It just sad. But that's okay, let's talk about some characters.Lex Luthor. Apart from his cringy part, something I really appreciated about this take on Luthor is that they made him seem like a genuine egotistical threatening figure with power over everyone he comes into contact with, he felt like an actual challenge and threat to Superman. This version of him more scary, more frightening and into his more classic state. He really feels like Superman's intellectual superior in every way. But i guess we won't be seeing this version again.Wonder Woman. I love when people say ''WW was flat'' because they have never been this right. Yes, she was flat but what do you want? This wasn't her movie. She should be flat, not the main subject.Superman. I love Snyder's Superman because Superman is an incredibly difficult character to make relatable, and Snyder made that possible for me. His Superman is realistic. He constantly doubts himself and makes mistakes. He's no longer a generic boy scout that can do no wrong. People don't like this Superman because in MoS he saved the world but not the New York, because he's an apocalypse level destruction, because he's not colorful enough. It's controversial but a realistic take on. What do you want? You want a God that acts like 12 years old? Do you want Superman to stop the fight and ask the villain ''Hey bro, i'm sorry but can you terraform Mars, some idiots uncomfortable with destruction on earth.''? And no, he is not dark. There is no indication of that whatsoever.Batman. This Batman has been doing his night job for 20 years. The movie perfectly captured how much this Bruce Wayne is addicted to the batsuit. That one scene where Affleck looking at the suit conveys just how tortured this Bruce Wayne is when he isn't wearing the suit. This Batman beat Superman -so please don't talk about him not being smart, strategic, and brilliant. He knew exactly what he was doing.- This Batman just broken and brutal. The first scene with him was just terrifying. The surroundings, the music, the cinematography screamed terror. Afterwards we see him in the Batcave interacting with Jeremy Irons as Alfred. By his behavior and his words, this version of the character starts out believing that by being Batman, by shutting himself off to the world, hiding in the shadows, that he will be redeemed or brought to the light. But then he realizes that is nothing more than a 'beautiful lie' and a childhood fantasy. Batman was lost in this movie. He's outlived his parents and most of his allies and his mission seems never ending still. He too turns bitter and cold towards his fellow man. Thus explaining his brutality. Especially after witnessing Superman's actions explained to us in Alfred's words: Everything has changed and good men are turning cruel. Batman ''despises'' Superman not because he's above the law, but because he has the power to wipe out the entire human race. ''So what happened to that him having the power to wipe out the entire human race part after the 'Martha' scene'' you say. After that scene, Batman sees Clark Kent, not Superman. And yes, he still has the power to wipe out the entire human race. But Batman doesn't see that part anymore because he had seen Superman's human side. Anyways, let's continue with question/answer."Why does Luthor introduce Bruce Wayne and Clark Kent to each other?"Luthor already knew who they really are. He didn't introduce Bruce to Clark, Clark approached Bruce and asked a few questions by himself. The biggest 3 characters of the movie were on a convention together and Snyder made that work."After his supposed death, why does Superman get a military/hero style funeral? Why is the country mourning?"You said in your review ''People of earth's distrust of Superman, due to the events from the first movie'' I guess you didn't watch that first movie properly either. Most of the people see him as a hope, some of them see him as a threat. If you didn't notice, they have a statue of him. Also, Superman saved those people's life by sacrificing himself twice. What do you mean ''why does Superman get a military/hero style funeral?'' Later on in this movie, after the public hearing, we only see the Batman's aggression towards the Superman and the people who think Superman is a threat. So you supposedly think that ALL people see Superman as a threat"Why did Superman stop Batman and didn't care the bad guys?"He doesn't see Batman as a good guy. For him, Batman is just another bad guy who brands people at that moment."Why is Doomsday angry with Superman? Since he is made from Zod & Luthor's genes, does hatred towards someone pass through genes?"Yes. Also Doomsday got his flying and heat vision abilities from Zod."Why is Batman not suspicious of the other meta beings?"Because they didn't fall from the sky like Superman. Because they didn't wipe out the whole city in a 1 day"Why didn't Superman track down Martha with his super hearing?"They said there was a scene where Clark tries to hear all of Metropolis and Gotham but it was too much and he couldn't focus. It was deleted scene because it was way too darkbaTmaN diDn'T kill suPerMan beCauSe thEiR mOThErs hAvE tHe sAme fIRst nAME, LMAO, thIs mOviE iS TraSH 😂🤣😂😎👌👌😂🤣No, you idiot. Batman saw Superman as just that Superman. Clark Kent didn't exist for Bruce. Superman was just an alien on earth that on the surface never bothered to be human. Yeah, he saved people but he also brought along with his death and destruction. Bruce, and Lex for that matter, projected on Superman a lot.Bruce didn't kill Clark because of Lois. When he saw Lois, a regular person, going to defend Superman and the fact he has a human mother changed his perception of Superman. Superman's mother's name had nothing to do with why he didn't kill him. That name triggered Bruce to pause since he was remembering his parents' death, after that he got more pissed off with Superman not less. Not until Lois came and saved Clark.If you just say Martha to Batman, he will be friends with you. Yeah, I, too, laughed when I first watched the movie? But this is perfected symbolism and one of the places where editing shines. The first important thing is, you have to listen to Batman carefully while he's dragging Superman in that gutter. The second important thing is, the cut, how it's follow Batman's thought process of realizing what he has become. When the memory comes back to Bruce first showing the gun firing at Thomas, it cuts to Batman showing that Batman is now an executioner, especially how the gun is pointed at his father is in relation to how Batman is standing over Superman. Then the pearls wrapped around the gun breaking as it is fired. After that, It cuts to the dream where he is a child falling. And then it cuts to Batman realizing that his dreams are his subconscious telling him that he has fallen. At the beginning of the movie where the dream takes place, Bruce says "In the dream, it took me to the light. A beautiful lie" It's cleverly shown by Snyder that Batman has started to realize that he has fallen, but he disregards that as a lie too in the beginning, saying this is how the world makes sense to him, being so brutal, especially at the point we see him in the movie, but now he starts to realize that he is wrong and he starts to let go of the beautiful lie and accepts the ugly truth. The final thing he needs to connect is Martha. It just shows Thomas reach out to Martha Wayne, mirroring how Superman is reaching out to Martha Kent. Bruce doesn't know this yet so he yells ''Why did u say that name'' once Lois tells him it his mothers name, not only does Batman realize they have something in common, he realizes that he became the very thing he dedicated his life to protect against. The action of Batman throwing the spear away is the moment he starts to now reject the man he became and the first action he does, in recompense, is to save Clark's mother, MarthaIt's a really clever way of filming someone's thought process. It's really fascinating how the first time we see the Wayne parent's murder, everyone is really in awe of how beautiful it was shot. When it is revisited again, it shows it is also poetic as well as beautiful. Save Martha was a plea that merely caught Bruce's attention. From there, he was able to deduce that this alien capable of a magnitude of destructive capabilities had true emotional investments in this world; that he possessed a family and loved ones, and thus, something to tangible to lose. Yes, family and friends are tangible things to lose. Batman knows exactly how it feels, how much change the death of a loved one can bring to youThis altered Batman's perception of Superman from being this all-powerful god that he viewed as self-righteous and a bringer of judgment to an actual flesh and blood man. The Zod fight actually affected Bruce in the most personal of ways - ways that Luthor and Lois were not. Batman saw a girl becoming an orphan. He saw a person who killed someone's mother in his actions. He saw Joe Chill in Superman. People's pasts often dictate how they move forward, and the things he had experienced differed greatly from the other characters. We needed to see those various means and strategies because it was one of the fundamental conflicts of the film"Why Superman says Martha instead of mother"Because he was Superman at that time, not Clark Kent. Or maybe Clark was appealing to Bruce's humanity via Martha Wayne.
__label__8 "How he decides which lives count and which ones do not"Name one superhero movie which asked this or something barely similar to this other than Watchmen and BvSControversial films like these are just over the heads of people who expect a cookie cutter happy ending movieA lot of people "criticized" this movie because Luthor was crazy, Batman kills, Superman doesn't smile, long of a movie, It's too pretentious, Jimmy Olsen died and the rest goes to nitpick mode. Those people don't want to see the big picture. They don't even care. This movie simultaneously balanced realistic ideas and concepts and seamlessly merged them into the characters' story arc allowing them to develop in a more realistic and comic accurate manner. The amount of depth and thought put into this film is unseen in previous comic book films. This movie focuses on more mature themes to drive the story, as a result, it feels more real and enhances the general feel of the movie because it has a greater sense of realityIt's a shame most of these elements went straight over people's heads. They're biased against the movie because they didn't like these versions of characters. They can't express their opinions in a constructive way because those opinions full of blind hatredSnyder made something so controversial that the DC's own fanboys turned against this universe. Casual moviegoers probably bored by the dialogues. But the dialogues were the most important thing in this movie. They didn't care about them, so they decided to hate the movie and call it boring disregarding its cinematography and soundtrack. Critics didn't like the movie because... Yeah, why? Maybe because they expected the sun to come out. Maybe because they expected something light, or funny, or casual. 'Cause clearly today's blockbuster movies needs to be all about these materials for the critics. But just because a movie didn't follow the procedure doesn't necessarily mean it's bad. Just because a movie is dark doesn't mean it's bad. Maybe those critics haven't seen 'Schindler's List' yet. Or maybe they've seen it and now they're being hypocritical by saying that this movie is too dark. "But tHeir genres aRe not tHe same, you can't cOmpAre the tWo" noMovie's Extended Cut didn't make the pace more fluid but it gave characters more depth and understanding, it fixed plot holes, and it created a cohesive film even though its story hasn't completed yet. But nobody cares about this so let's just continue with some answers that you don't want to hear."The Movie's name"-Because 'V' is in the movie's name, you guys expected a fight between Batman and Superman throughout the movie - you thought the whole movie was building up for this fight so you didn't care much anything else and when it finally happened you disappointed it because of certain reasons. But some of you misinterpreted the title. Although there is no difference as both are abbreviations for the same word, 'v' is used when one party has a grievance against another. Snyder said that they used "v" instead of "vs" because they didn't want people to think the whole movie was just one big fight between the two. Well, I guess that was in vain-Actually, the whole movie was building up for ''Martha'' scene. Batman's dream, the one that had bad CGI. Batman's brand, his new rule. Opening scene which created Batman's PTSD, his trigger word. Batman's past. It all for that scene. Of course, I understand if you don't want to look at it this way. They could have come up with something better. But don't just say ''poorly executed'' You just heard that somewhere"The movie is incoherent''No, it's not, you're just an idiot. And yes, I am, an intellectual, smarter than all of you."Why Lex want to kill Superman"-Because of what he represented.-Also, Luthor isn't just want to kill him. First, he wants to show the whole world how much fraud Superman is with his plan, and then have him killed."Superman has no remorse for the destruction he caused in the first movie"-You can't know that because this movie tells about events that happened 18 months after the first movie-Also, Superman's destruction made this story. If Superman didn't cause that destruction or didn't kill someone, Batman wouldn't go against him in the first place"Batman is the greatest detective in the planet but he still can't figure it out Superman is a good guy"Blind hatred. He doesn't want to figure it out. He doesn't want to know if this movie is good or not. He just doesn't care because he saw some bad reviews and then watched the movie with prejudice, of course he doesn't want to figure it out if it's good or not. He have a preconceived notion"Thousands are probably killed, but Superman only saves Lois Lane"Because she is Superman's world. He also didn't save those people where Luthor's henchmen burned them after killing them all"Superman threatens Batman that he can easily kill Batman, twice"-What should he do to warn him then-Also, this Superman is a whole new take on. He's not Superman that you know of from the comics. But of course, this is the main problem with Superman for most of the people"Batman STEALING from Lex Luthor"-What's wrong with STEALING? Was it you who create him? His arc in this movie fit to STEALING."Batman uses guns to kill. He even dreams of gun battles."-There is more behind his story. His and movie's story hasn't completed yet. We haven't told much-That dream wasn't a dream actually. It was a different timeline where Superman turned evil-It's really sad that some people define Batman off of one aspect and act as if Batman kills someone "he's not Batman anymore" or "they ruined him". You don't know what kind of universe is this. Some versions of him kill, some versions don't. This version of Batman is just unheard of"Why Wonder Woman joined the last fight. She didn't save the world from Hitler before, why now?"Because of the emails sent by Batman"Luthor comes up with the idea that since the ship has a biometric security, he can use Zod's body to gain access. It did not cross anyone else's mind"-Maybe it did cross it but she/he didn't have the power to do that kind of thing-Also, why would cross someone else's mind that kind of thing?"There is no villain to solve in the story"-There's always two kinds of villain; there's the soldier villain - who fights the hero with his hands; and then there's the real threat - the brilliant and evil archenemy - who fights the hero with his mind.(Unbreakable)-I know this wasn't your typical superhero. But does the movie really need to pinpoint the villain? If you wanna a villain super bad, then just choose it. Anybody can be a villain in this story. You don't have to bash the movie for it"The all powerful Kryptonian key has no security"Why would it need security?"Kryptonians have banned the technology to create Doomsday. It's so dangerous, they decide not to remove it"-Maybe they are not able to remove it?-And this ''Kryptonians banning the technology to create Doomsday'' also signs that the real Doomsday is out there somewhere. Which means they didn't kill off the real Doomsday. But of course this doesn't matter anymore."Doomsday appears so that Snyder can once again have a city-leveling battle."That was Luthor's second plan to kill Superman"How does Luthor know what Batman has planned?"Luthor made possible that fight. What do you mean ''how does he know''"Batman finds Martha in a jiffy because he is"Batman didn't find Martha, Alfred didSome of these ''small plot points'' are just pointless. It's like you just wanted to hate the movie before even saw itI saw a review from a "top critic" on Rotten Tomatoes saying that opening scene was needless, Lois Lane was completely useless, there were a lot of characters, there is no focus on one thing. These comments are just biased with his fanboyism. And she doesn't care if the movie full of emotion or not. He says ''opening scene was needless because we've all seen this before'' but can't comprehend its depth. I mean how can a "professional critic" look at something like this one way. She doesn't care if there is more meaning in it. He says ''Lois Lane was completely useless'' but doesn't know what emotion is. I mean If Lois Lane wasn't there to be saved, then there wouldn't be any big emotion in Superman's death. She already down to criticize the movie. He says ''there were a lot of characters, there is no focus on one thing'' and criticizes away. But when she comes for the "Infinity War" review, he says "This is probably the best movie in the MCU" and declares it's a freshOther than that critic, another critic says that the characters' tone wasn't right. Like, really? Who are he to make a comment like that? Just because he has a big name and a big degree doesn't mean he's right. He has only a title and a dependent opinion, nothing else - nothing to prove what he's saying.Some of these so called critics criticizing those movies that don't follow the procedure is a little hypocritical, right? Considering every time when they watch an old movie that has the same formula, they write a puff piece editorial about how good and perfect it wasSome people think that "entertainment" is what makes a movie great. Those people are probably a hypocrite, or they haven't seen a lot of movies other than Disney's. Just because you enjoyed or hated a movie doesn't mean it's good or bad. We can still discuss its strengths and flawsWas this movie perfect? Of course not, it had flaws, but it never deserved a criticism like this.Did this movie worked? No, it didn't. That's why it has rejected by the general audience. It was too controversial and there were too many unexplained things to care for them. But this doesn't mean the movie is bad. You can't just blindly hate it and call it trash. You can still discuss its strengths and flaws if you want to
__label__8 I didn't see the film in the theaters and just bought the "Extended Edition " on Amazon. I never properly saw Man of Steel- i think I rented it and watched it when already exhausted and fell asleep. I saw the mediocre user reviews and horrible reviews from critics of this film.They really have it wrong. This is the very best either Batman or Superman. It has a different take, on things. Much darker then earlier films even darker then the Christopher Nolan Batman films.First of all Christopher Nolan is an Executive Producer. So how bad could it be? I loved Sucker Punch and Zack Snyder was involved with that. So how bad could this be? Hans Zimmer did the music, so how bad could it be?I remember watching the old Superman TV shows and reading the Superman and Batman comics as a little kid and loved them, but i wouldn't call myself a "fan boy" of comic universes, like so many younger people today. As an older adult I will admit my favorite TV show of all time was Buffy the Vampire Slayer, but watched it on DVD only after it had finished. I saw the second of the Dark Knight series in the theater, but the other two, I watched on DVD. They were great, but not my favorite films like so many people. i also loved the first couple Superman and Batman films in the older series. Regardless, i was not waiting with baited breath to see Man of Steel or this one.I'm more of a serious film fan, who can watch Stanley Kubrick films over and over and my favorite films in the last twenty years, are Eyes Wide Shut and Intersteller, both of which i've watched multiple times.So, with that said, take it from me, the critics have this film very wrong, just as critics hated 2001: A Space Odyssey when it first came out. This film will have lasting appreciation.Surprised how much I liked Ben Afleck's Batman. it was hard to get into Henry Cavil's scrawnier looking Superman, but it grew on me. Amy Adams was great as Lois Lane, The Gal Gadol Wonder Women was amazing. Lex Luther was terrific, like Nolan's Joker. Jeremy Irons was the best Alfred ever. Holly Hunter and Diane Lane was good too. The movie had bad reviews but made a billion dollars. Hopefully everyone buys the Ultimate Edition and it breaks sales records and the film is re-appreciated. I have no idea what scenes this Ultimate Edition added, but it is pretty perfect. Now I can't wait for Wonder Woman and the Justice League and as soon as I finish writing this am going to watch Man of Steal. I'm into it now!I can only surmise that the bad reviews stem from too much expectations of the rigid fan boy types and the radical changes in tone, we see in this film.Total masterpiece of cinema, but I have a few criticisms. There are a few hollow scenes of typical Idiot cops and authorities getting everything wrong in a cliché type way and it has a few filler scenes of that type and a few moments here and there that felt rushed and cheesy. Maybe not everything restored into the Ultimate Edition should have been. I wish there had been more Kevin Costner scenes.
__label__8 I really liked it, don't know what all the hate is about. I'm actually a Marvel fan from when I was 7 or so, but Superman and Batman together in 1 movie? Just great. And personally I like Ben Affleck even better than Christian Bale as Batman. So just watch and enjoy, I know I did!
__label__8 Batman v Superman: Ultimate Edition: If your looking for a quick, cheap thrill then you might not enjoy this film at the time. This movies theatrical version was butchered by WB and in doing so reshaped the story leaving numerous plot holes. So the Ultimate Edition is the full story and the one worth seeing. Watch 'Man of Steel' before seeing this movie. There is much to claw through here, so much so that the audience might easily find themselves exhausted from the overall aggression of the film. However, a lot of the story does work. The action is good, and the emotion feels real most of the time.This film is about Superman trying to become Superman. Trying to help the world, save people, find a place in this world not as an outcast, and yet is looked at has a threat by many. Superman is not from this world, yet He is trying to be human, find a place in this world, be excepted by earths people, and come into his destiny.This film is also about Batman being Batman for 20 years and losing faith in humanity, and fearing Superman, what Superman can do with his powers. Great film, great plot, great visuals. ---Yidioo
__label__8 The theatrical cut of this film is garbage which is why I rated it eight stars instead of nine. The first time I watched this film I didn't like it (not straight out hate but didn't like). Character motivations didn't make any sense, Lex was annoying as s***, editing was sloppy, and it was overly dark and broody for an action superhero movie. A year + a half, five Marvel films, a ton of bad reviews and a Justice League later a thought popped into my head: "what if I watched BVS again". This time I didn't have trailers ruining the best moments, I only vaguely remembered the film, and I was conditioned to look at it negatively but something unexpected happened: I actually loved it. Superman was just a normal person that tried to make a difference cause he could that others imposed their own beliefs on. Lex Luthor was a genius that couldn't stand his powerlessness compared to Superman or more accurately a super being. As Alfred said "The fever, the rage, the feeling of powerlessness that turns good men... cruel" and you see the same thought process in Batman. Batman, just like Lex Luthor feels powerless in the midst of a god-being and just like Lex he attempts to destroy him so he can get his sense of power back but unlike Lex, Batman learns something. I what is one of the corniest lines of the movie Superman says, "Martha" when he knows he can't win against Batman in a late desperate attempt to save his mother. Not only does this name connect with Bruce Wayne but it also shows what really matters to a man of steel: it isn't power, it isn't fame or anything else, it is his Mother and on a broader scale it is people. Lex (who doesn't care about people at all) knows he doesn't have the power so he creates something from his blood and the remains of Zod: A Doomsday for Superman. Not only does this film have depth but it also doesn't always explain it to you which is rare in a blockbuster action superhero flick normally cater to semi-comic book fans and people that want to shove popcorn in their mouths. This film rewards you for really noticing the details while still having massive explosions. One of my favorites is how Lex has all of Batman's branded killed which is why he isn't afraid of the branding at the end or Grandma's Peach Tea as a way of scaring the s*** out of someone. Of course, this film isn't perfect and I do have personal dislikes. The Batman V Superman fight was slow and pretty boring especially after watching such an amazing fight in Batman: The Dark Knight Returns Part 2 (If you haven't watched the animated Batman: The Dark Knight Returns Part 1 and 2 you are sorely missing out on something fantastic). Also, the addition of Wonder Woman who pretty much steals a hacker thing, gives it back and then suits up and fights against a giant monster thing. Not to say I don't like Wonder Woman (She is one of my favorite Superheroes of all time who showed not only can woman kick a** but they also don't need to be ashamed of their sexuality or gender) but she wasn't really that helpful to the plot and just brought in to expand the universe which was well done through Lex's superhuman hunting files. Also, the post-apocalyptic scene that was just a dream could have been cut but nothing is perfect except movies like Citizen Kane which isn't a lot of fun to watch cause it is too perfect. So to summarize, the theatrical cut is bad, the ultimate cut is Amazing and the other cut is meh. Please give it a second chance because it deserves it and save a good director from losing grace because of something he didn't do.
__label__8 I was totally surprised and blown away by this movie! First of all, Superman Returns takes you back to the original cinematic universe of Superman 1 and 2. When the movie started and I realized that, I was pretty skeptic, I didn't believe that it could work 26 years after Superman 2 (actually it was 36 years, when I was watching it). Then when Clark Kent returned to the Daily Planet, and I saw that the actor (Brandon Routh) is actually doing Christopher Reeve's Clark Kent, I was like "Oh no, this will be bad!". The same thing with the young photographer, Jimmy Olsen - the actor was playing the exact same character. I didn't like the concept. But then I said to myself, okay, I'm gonna go with it, so I kept watching the movie, and very shortly I had to realize that it actually works! It was funny, it was exciting, it was emotional - it was everything that a classical Superman movie needs to be! Kate Bosworth as Lois Lane was amazing! She was actually not trying to copy Margot Kidder, she was doing her own thing, but still remained Lois Lane. I would say, as far as acting goes, Kate Bosworth was the best thing in this movie. A couple of things I didn't like: 1. In the first half of the movie there were some pretty bad CGI moments. There were some scenes where Superman almost looked cartoonish. Thankfully it was only 2 or 3 scenes, the rest of the visuals and CG were pretty good - especially considering that the movie was made in 2006. 2. Kevin Spacey was not a good Lex Luthor. He probably was told to do Gene Hackman's Lex and it just didn't work. At least in the first half of the movie. In the last hour or so, it seemed like he started to adjust the character to himself a little bit, and that did make him more believable as Luthor.In the last half an hour the movie was flying! There was action, there was suspense, drama and a lot of emotion - but not too much! It was just perfect. I was actually in tears, which doesn't happen to me very often.By the way, I did like Man Of Steel too, I didn't mind that DC eventually took the franchise in that direction. But I have to say, I did like Superman Returns even more. This one I loved! This is not the kind of superhero movie that fans expect from DC and/or Marvel in 2016. This rather takes you back 20-30 years in time and helps you feel what it was like when as a kid you were cheering for Superman. Thank you, Bryan Singer and whoever else was involved in it!
__label__8 I became curious enough to re-watch this movie after seeing Brandon Routh's performance as Ray Palmer/A.T.O.M. in Arrow, Flash, and Legends of Tomorrow. I feel that it is a highly underrated film and gets an unnecessary bad rap. Brandon Routh's portrayal of Clark Kent/Superman, I feel, is second only to Christopher Reeves, whom he does a great job of capturing. The action scenes are top-notch and fun to watch. It even has one of the most brutal fight scenes in any Superman movie which could be a bit hard to watch. Yes, even more than the Zack Snyder movies.This movie is far from perfect, but it is a lot better than what it's given credit for. I do recommend checking it out.
__label__8 Like many other people, the character of Superman has always been a firm favourite of mine dating back to my childhood. Christopher Reeve's Superman made me believe a man could fly with the light-hearted 'Lois and Clark' series seeing me through the Nineties. I was sceptical as the next Supes fan when I heard they were to bring back the character, recast and revitalised for a twenty-first century audience. But having seen 'Superman Returns', those fears were instantly pushed back as I now eagerly await a sequel.'Superman Returns' is set five years after Christopher Reeve's 'Superman II' (thankfully ignoring the events in the lacklustre 'Superman III and IV'). Superman, after five years of searching for the remains of his homeplanet Krypton, has returned to Earth to resume his life as Clark Kent only to find things moved on without him. Lois Lane is now mother to five-year-old son Jason and engaged to Perry White's nephew Richard. She is also thoroughly disenchanted with Superman although it soon becomes clear there is much unresolved feelings between the two. But between juggling his conflicting emotions for Lois and his duties to protecting the population, Superman has to face his arch-enemy Lex Luthor, who has stolen the crystals from the Fortress of Solitude and is intent on using them to rule the world.It was never going to be easy Brandon Routh to step into Christopher Reeve's shoes but he takes it in his stride, managing to capture the bumbling but kindly nature of Clark and the strong, reserved demeanour of a Superman who strives to find a balance between his alien heritage and the life he has made for himself on Earth. He both makes the role his own yet does well in succeeding where Reeve left off. Kate Bosworth was also another surprise. I was very disappointed in her casting initially but seeing her perform in the film left me realising that she was perfect for the job as she portrays the cocky and determined yet vulnerable Lois to a tee. Kevin Spacey was great as the obsessive, slightly unhinged Luthor who possesses a real hatred for our hero while Parker Posey gave us a nicely-portrayed 'shades of grey' character in Kitty, a villain with a heart. Even the little moppet who played Jason gave a decent performance without being wooden or grating.What I loved most about the film is that it delivered an interesting storyline that didn't reject the first two 'Superman' films, which are classics in the heart of any Superman fan and had already done a good job in covering the origins story. But at the same time, it didn't shirk in giving us deeper insights into the character of Superman, the solitary hero and the man who just wants to fit in. What was a pleasant surprise was that the film also refused to dumb down to small children in the audience, which is a growing problem with many Hollywood films that over-dose on infantile humour to appeal to kids resulting in boredom for anyone over fourteen. There was humour, some on a level to make children laugh, but overall there was a nice mix of action, romance and darkness aimed more at an older audience. They even avoid the clichéd pitfall of portraying Lois' love interest to be a sanctimonious twit and instead he came across as a genuinely nice guy who shows that it's understandable why she has problems choosing between him and SupermanIn fact, my only real problem was that there wasn't enough interaction between Lois and Clark, which would have been nice as Clark's jealousy towards his alter-ego and the attention Lois lavishes on him is a large part of the story yet in the film, you felt as if Clark and Superman really were two different people with Clark just being some rather random guy. However, it can be over-looked by the fact that Clark was so happy to just have Lois' attention that he didn't care whether it was projected onto himself in his real personality or on Superman.For anyone who has yet to see the film, I do recommend it and don't allow yourself to be put off by nitpickers complaining about the actors' being too young (better they be a shade on the younger side than going the 'Smallville' route where you have adults in their late twenties and thirties prancing around pretending to be teens and just looking ridiculous for it) or that the film is too long (even the eight-year-olds in the audience sat quietly, glued to the screen, for the entire film) or that it's bland (no more so than 'Spiderman'). I, for one, thoroughly enjoyed it and am looking forward to a sequel. After a rather dull summer at the cinema, this film renewed my faith in the summer blockbuster!
__label__8 This movie has everything a good blockbuster should have: star cast, special effects, a healthy dose of drama, romance, a villain (so to say), sadly also a rather weak story, with an ending just calling for "part three" (just like the last second in the Matrix trilogy) I didn't get that feeling, that the adventure is finished somehow, more like a soap opera ending. On the other hand some dialogs are really funny, and the whole movie is more like a parody on pirates. All and all: go and see this, sit down in that cinema and have a good time with friends, but if you are more into "heavy for the mind" stuff, this is not a must-see for you.
__label__8 Well, first of all, when I read the review for the movie in my hometown paper, I was a little scared that Pirates might be a let down. The trailer and the movie clips, it seemed, didn't really let on that there was much of a story line -- that it just kind of goes on and on and on, like the Matrix 2, with no storyline -- just fighting. Plus, most people do agree: sequels are hardly ever as good as the originals. And in this case, it's true... Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest isn't the original. But, its an awesome movie in its own right! There are a few surprises in this movie. A few characters come back from the first that you wouldn't expect to see in the second. but... um! that's all I'm saying. This movie is definitely a lot more violent and gory than the first one. Don't bring the little kids to it. But, trust me -- this is not a Matrix-type movie... There is an actual storyline. And a good one at that. Capt. Jack Sparrow is back as well as Elizabeth and Will, who are forced to find him and obtain his compass, or else they will face the gallows. Well, actually, Will has to find him. Elizabeth escapes, and yes... as you've seen in the trailers, she does dress up like a man for this movie. Making it all the more comical. (you'll see what I mean).The comedy was superb in this movie. Of course, it wasn't as good as the first, but you can't expect it to be. Yes, there were a few instances were they could've shortened the fighting scenes, but it was very well shot and scripted.I wish they would've changed a few things about the movie, but you can't have everything. And don't expect everything to be resolved at the end. No! There's a cliff-hanger ending that leaves you wanting the watch the next one the moment the credits start rolling.If you like the first movie, you'll like the second... And that's all I'm saying.Jack Sparrow: "Why is the rum *always* gone?" (he stands up and staggers) "Oh... That's why."
__label__8 Some blockbuster movies pretend to be more than they actually are. They sometimes even try to be philosophical. 'Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest', thank goodness, does no such thing. From start to finish, it practically flaunts the fact that it is pure and utter entertainment, comic yet breathtaking. The slapstick comedy involving the various sequences on the cannibal island and the water mill are amusing, the scenes at sea with the Flying Dutchman and the Kraken draw gasps, and, as ever, the antics of Johnny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow brings endless pleasure. Keira Knightley as Elizabeth Swann does her share too, but Orlando Bloom as William Turner is still somewhat...wooden, perhaps because of the insipid character that he plays. His (almost idiotic) chivalry and goodness simply does not click with the mischievous magnetism that Jack Sparrow and Elizabeth Swann delivers. He still does amuse from time to time, however. The supporting cast is truly stellar; Bill Nighy as Captain Davy Jones, Stellan Skarsgard as Bill 'Boostrap' Turner and Naomie Harris as Tia Dalma are simply brilliant. Bill Nighy delivers his lines with aplomb, smacking his lips as if he relishes each syllable. Stellan Skarsgard is completely believable as the wretched Bootstrap Bill, a man who has fallen to the depths as far as he can go, and yet can still find the strength to endure it all in the love he has for his son, William. Naomie Harris is just as charismatic as the former two, but her charisma is not menacing or stoic but mysterious and even alluring. When she grins her black-toothed grin, one cannot help but grin along with her. In the end, 'Dead Man's Chest' is a roller-coaster-ride of a movie that thoroughly exploits every minute of its two-and-a-half-hour running time, ending with a final cliffhanger that leaves people feeling excited yet frustrated. (Remember when you watched 'Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring' and realized that you would have to wait another year for 'The Two Towers'? Like that.) NB. If you have the patience, stay till the end of credits. It's mildly amusing.
__label__8 Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest reviewed by Sam Osbornrating: 3.0 out of 4More, more, more seems to be the theme running through Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest. There's more adventure, more violence, more pirates, and more myth. Not to mention that two and a half hour running length. But while Superman Returns may have dragged some in its 150 minutes, Pirates hurtles along at a pace only expected from the offspring of a Disneyland theme-ride, rarely slowing for piddling bits of nonsense like, oh say, story. Of course, story's not the point of these flicks and it surely doesn't have to be. There's entertainment enough to be had without all the other hodgepodge. And Pirates 2, for all its expansion, manages to dodge common sequelitis pitfalls. It doesn't overdose on a memorable character from the original (cough, Matrix Revolutions, cough) or over-broaden it's scope (cough, Matrix Reloaded,cough). Dead Man's Chest is a continuation of the original Pirates adventure, just with a couple extra unmarked sails tacked onto its deck. The plot has something to do with ole' Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp, of course) and his debt to Davy Jones (Bill Nighy). Debts, as we've all learned by now, are not things Mr. Sparrow is most proficient at repaying. The Dead Man's Chest factors in as it holds Mr. Jones' beating heart, which was ravaged by the likes of a lady whom he loved in the past. The English Navy blowhards also seem to be after the chest, and blackmail William Turner (Orlando Bloom) to seek out Capt. Jack's magic compass, which supposedly points toward the treasure. Held in a cell is Will's fiancé, Elizabeth Swan (Kiera Knightley), under charges of assisting Capt. Jack in the franchise's last swashbuckler. What it boils down to is a mottled mess of a chase to find the key to Davey Jones' chest, and avoiding his gargantuan beast, the Kraken. The myth itself wrings deeper than the original's, with Davey Jones and his seafood cohorts rendered with an unholy amount of CGI goodness to make them squirm convincingly in all their scaly, slippery evil. But the plot doesn't hold much water, same as the first, though plot was never the point. As long as it paints a tastily mythological backdrop for our pirates to plunder, we're kept smiling. And even though the picture has all the weight of a paperclip, the franchise has at least matured since it's last time around. The mood has thickened and no longer can we tell that the film is a shameless translation of its Disneyland ride. Writers Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio take efforts to develop each of our three heroes separately, using individual sub-plots to fill in the otherwise empty molds left dry from the original. Will Turner has a family reunion with his father (Stellan Skarsgard), enslaved by Davy Jones and appearing as though he's slowly evolving into a starfish. Will's fiancé, Ms. Swan, escapes from her cell and hides as a stowaway on a trade vessel. And Jack, of course still functioning as the star of the show, develops his slimier persona with delectable cowardice and deception. Ironic that the teenagers of America have chosen Mr. Sparrow as their most prized character in film. Oh, wait, that honor instead belongs to Napoleon Dynamite. Perhaps we should be nervous about our country's future? Anyway, along with the characters the adventure is also thickened heartily; though probably not by consequence of the writing, but instead because of the greatly inflated budget. Our friends are volleyed about the seas, facing the enormous sea monster, the Kraken, whose plunger-like tentacles crumple vessels like copy-paper. Swordplay is more indulgent too, with Verbinksi going so far as to mount a chivalric swordfight inside a huge, rolling waterwheel as it bounces along the island's foliage. Verbinski juggles these stunts with ease, proving once again his film-making versatility. If you'll remember all the way back to last October (I know, in Hollywood-time nine months is an epoch) Verbinski made a quiet, gloomy little character study called The Weather Man. And before that, Verbinski also directed The Ring and Captain Jack's first adventure in 2003. Yup, this guy's the real deal. In the waterwheel sequence, Verbinski chooses not to succumb to any mere CGI trickery, and mounts a camera on the wheel's axis to show that at one point he forced Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom to swordfight on a giant spinning wooden wheel. And he's more artistic than your typical Brett Ratner-esquire director, finding a visual aesthetic perfect for a pirate's tale. But art and pretentious critic fodder aside, Dead Man's Chest is great entertainment. It's rich and exciting and chock-full of Captain Jack-isms for high schoolers to repeat over and again. And the life of pirates is still a chunk of history that Hollywood has been unwilling to bite into for a while. Pirates of the Caribbean, for all its feathery, lightweight fun, gorges on this chunk and keeps us hooked on the adventure, waiting along with all the local eighth and ninth graders next year for the midnight showing of Captain Jack's trilogy capper.
__label__8 There is in this picture one virtue that covers everything else - this is a story. I compare this film with chess - after every turn or word of this or that hero the situation changes dramatically and the alignment of forces acquires a new character.Better than anyone can manipulate the moves of Jack Sparrow. He is very sensitive to the nerve of conversation, instantly assesses the situation and gives a decent response to any "gifts" of fate. From the first viewing it is difficult to realize how profound the film is.Behind external beauty, a good game of actors hides a famously twisted, dynamic and very clever plot.Everyone who does not like the picture, I advise you to review it more carefully, listening to the dialogue of the characters and trying to understand the motives of their actions. I assure you will get a real pleasure! An outstanding film!
__label__8 You know the plot; you also know who is in this movie so lets get to it. Gore Verbinski has delivered a film that moves leisurely along peppered with rousing action sequences, comedy, villainy and pathos. It is solid entertainment. I would place this movie alongside Waterworld, The Last Action Hero, and John Carter as unfairly panned films which deserves to succeed in the cinema halls.It is too bad that there appears to be a hate on for this movie simply because it seems that a lot of money was spent in its making. But look at it this way, when you hire real stunt persons, construct and destroy real trains and stage many stunts for real, it is not going to be cheap. I would rather support this type of movie-making any day instead of the tired CGI based effects laden yawners. Every penny of the budget is on screen in a beautiful shot and staged movie. I found it to be an enjoyable 159 minutes of entertainment.
__label__8 I saw a screening of this last night with a friend and to be honest I wasn't expecting much. From the previews I had seen, I wasn't going to spend money on this. So Time Warner offers me two free tickets, I invite a friend and we go and watch this. I was presently surprised after watching this. I remember some of the Lone Ranger comics and remember seeing small clips and my dad telling me stories about it but I never actually saw a show. I enjoyed this movie, it reminded me of fun action with the family. The violence wasn't ridiculous where you couldn't bring children to watch it but authentic enough to know not to try it at home. I saw in an interview that Armie did all the stunts and you can tell. His work on making the character honorable, noble and pretty much a decent human being was very well portrayed. Johnny Depp steals the show with his one liners, a few times I just started laughing at the comments he would make. Overall i'd give this movie an 8/10. Well written, excellent character development, you actually care for them and a great job with the actors and the acting. What I really enjoyed about the movie was that the special effects didn't look too fake. Yeah a few scenes you may have been like yeah right in your head but unlike Fast and the Furious 6, the special effects people on this project do a great job keeping it looking realistic. Bring your family to watch this, a great story of an iconic character. Hopefully this is the start to more because I wouldn't mind watching a sequel or two.
__label__8 I was a little disappointed about the critics' review of the movie, since I adore Johnny Depp and had been waiting for the movie to release for months. I was pleasantly surprised. The movie was lovely. It had action (as promised), a good plot and pretty generous doses of humor for a movie of this genre. Depp stole the show with his portrayal of Tonto, but the other actors were great as well. The obvious comparison of this movie is with the Pirates of the Caribbean series because of Verbinski and Depp. There were parts of the movie, especially those where Tonto's actions generated laughs from the theater, which reminded me of the latter. Both have Depp in eccentric roles which provide ample comic relief. But since the themes are completely different, I feel that a comparison is not exactly fair. All in all, it is a good, lighthearted, entertaining way to spend two and a half hours, and I am considering hitting the theater for it again soon.
__label__8 What is wrong with these snarky critics? I just saw this film (and I paid full price for my tickets, all you lucky previewers!) I thought this film was very good -- far better than I had expected from reading all the criticism from the film critics and some of the comments from viewers. Did they just miss the point entirely? Listen, it's not that complicated. This movie just takes the old Lone Ranger classics (radio and TV serial) and has fun with re-booting that story. It's Tonto who is the one telling the story this time and the Lone Ranger who's the straight man -- and this actually works (in my opinion). After all, this is really a re-boot -- a "how the Lone Ranger became the classic hero" story -- and having Tonto tell the story is a brilliant move to change the straight-laced Lone Ranger as infallible Western superhero into a believable character for a more modern audience. John Reid, the guy who's eventually going to become the Lone Ranger, starts out as a straight-laced stiff who takes himself and his beliefs far too seriously. Tonto clearly thinks he's pretty useless -- and that's a funny premise to begin with. Armie Hammer is perfectly credible as John Reid -- he's plays fish out of water in the bad old West, but slowly (with Tonto's help) he starts to learn what he needs to learn to be effective in putting a halt to the evil done by the bad guys.Tonto is a great role for Johnny Depp. It's his deadpan humor that provides the story's most lively commentary on how the Lone Ranger is progressing in learning his craft. I think many people were startled by Johnny Depp's costume -- but go look up Kirby Statler's "I am Crow" picture on Google images. There is an historical basis for how Johnny Depp decided to dress as Tonto. Besides, historically speaking, it was less likely that an Indian living in the canyons area of west Texas would be an Apache -- which is the closest native costume to how Jay Silverheels (the TV serial's Tonto) dressed -- than it would be for the Indian to be a Comanche. I've lived in Texas for decades and actually studied Texas (and Comanche) history enough so that I have no problem with Johnny Depp's outfit -- and the crow on his head actually ends up involved in some pretty funny bits in the movie! They actually were pretty clever in how they did this.The point of the picture is both the individual journey that John Reid makes to become the Lone Ranger (earning Tonto's friendship and respect along the way) and the overall nature of the forces arrayed against them. During the course of the film, the whole picture slowly becomes clear about what the bad guys are up to and who is helping them and why ... and the climax of the film (the last 20 minutes or so) is just a spectacular action sequence. Here, the Lone Ranger is finally the hero we remember -- and so it's fitting that when we hear the William Tell overture cut in, it's funny but also it finally fits! The final battle is very very well done. It's a very complicated sequence, with lots of different participants, but Verbinski does a great job of helping the audience keep track of who's who and what's going on. It works! Finally, I think some people had a problem with the "frame story." I didn't. I totally thought that worked. If Tonto is telling the tale -- the myth of the old West, the myth of the Lone Ranger -- to a kid, then that leaves us, the audience, to decide what parts of the story are embellished for mythmaking and storytelling and what parts are the parts that a younger Tonto actually experienced. I think that's brilliant, actually. How else, other than through this kind of mythic lens, could you tell such a classic hero tale to a modern audience? By the way, about some of the earlier reviews that mentioned a bloody scene involving the bad guy actually eating a heart ... the theatrical release we saw today did not have this as an explicit action scene. That is, you hear the bad guy say he's going to do it, and he apparently does do it, but you do not specifically see the bloody gory deed. I assume that (maybe just for American audiences) they edited that down to be more suggestive than completely depicted. I would say that this is a movie that kids (down to the age of 8, say) could tolerate without major trauma.HINT: There IS a final bit over the last part of the credits that I think answers some of the questions about whether Tonto is who he says (to the kid) that he is.
__label__8 Caution: spoilers may abound. I think this movie is severely underrated. Most complaints I see are of people who can't let go of the vision of superman they got from Christopher reeve who played a superman who was a god among men who never made mistakes and always knew what to do. That's not someone we relate to in this day and age because in our cynical and jaded society it's impossible to be that morally upright. I like Henry Cavill's superman because he plays a man who has to learn how to be superman. He's not perfect out the gate and he doesn't automatically know how to handle every situation right out the gate. Because of this a lot of lives are lost in the battle of metropolis and superman is forced to end zod because there is no other recourse because there is no way to contain him on earth with all the kryptonian tech is destroyed. Whatever you can say about how believable it is that superman didn't have a choice it's still set up well. Krypton was very beautiful and Russell Crowe made a great jor el. As far as the plot for the movie I understand the criticism that the flashbacks don't make sense but I think the death of Jonathan Kent is done very well because it's a sacrifice intended to keep Clark undercover. All in all its not perfect but it's far from terrible.
__label__8 I saw Man Of Steel last night at an advance screening and at no point was I looking down on the movie.From the trailers and TV spots the movie really gets you interested and dying for more.And the Movie itself soars(yes I know ha-ha)above the expectations.First of all Henry Cavill is an excellent Clark Kent/Superman.He really gives the character that "not wanted" or "don't feel like you belong" feeling.The cast in the movie is excellent including Russell Crowe and Michael Shannon.Russell Crowe really expands on Jor-el's character and makes him more than just a voice helping Clark.Michael Shannon as Zod is terrific.He was even better than Superman 2's Zod.The fight scenes in the movie are astonishing.It makes up for all the lack of conflict Superman Returns had.The fight scenes are very destructive yes but there is a very good story around it so it wasn't just mindless explosions like Transformers.Man of steel was by far the best movie of the year.
__label__8 Jack Snyder's fresh take on Superman/Man of Steel is... fresh indeed. A superhero movie that maxes visual wizardry but beautifully balanced by emotional tones without feeling heavy. Gone is the sleek metal and crystal polish we have known replaced by a techno- organic theme (reminds me of Prometheus) that is both regal and advanced. This is perhaps the only Superman film with the best narrative of the Kryptonian's heritage and history. Good casting and an impressive performance by Russell Crowe. I give it an 8.5/10 (just behind Dark Knight Rises IMHO). The Dad in me deems this movie watchable by kids (more age-appropriate, less violent than Iron Man 3)
__label__8 (My first review on IMDb EVER. I don't know why I feel so strongly about defending this movie.)As a summer tentpole, Man of Steel delivers. It's sprawling, feels epic, and is loaded with enough booms and bangs to keep the popcorn going. But don't let that distract you from the story: the origin is properly managed, and although it does look back to Donner's take on Superman II, it's been given a fresh spin. Let's face it, he's called SUPERman. They've made him out to be a god on earth, and the action is adequately OTT to address it. This isn't a movie that's meant to be taken seriously; if you can believe a man can fly, you should be able to appreciate the outrageous action. This is clearly not The Dark Knight, but you'll at least leave the cinema with a hint of a smile on your face, and feeling that the money spent was actually worth it.High spot: Seeing Russel Crowe as Jor-el. What a fella. Low spot: The last 20 minutes fell a bit flat - but they weren't dull. Feels like: Big, loaded with thrills and spills.
__label__8 I have been a fan of Zack Snyder's work and when I heard he would be filling the director's shoes for Superman, I was excited. Man of Steel works at many levels. A solid story that starts from Krypton and ends at our world. One is made to feel like a Kryptonian more than a Earthling and the screenplay is very natural. I felt that the pacing was quite good and there was never a dull moment. The action is thick and realistic and you can expect a lot of destruction and havoc, but still befitting for a Superman movie. The casting was apt and Henry Cavill and Russel Crowe are the standouts but I will credit Zack for this movie's success and I hope WB persist with him for the sequel.
__label__8 Director Andrew Adamson, who helmed the first installment in the series, after making his career primarily in animation (including the original "Shrek") seems decidedly more comfortable in his role as a live action director this time around, and he handles the scope and the pacing of this epic adventure with a polished skill that is a very pleasant surprise. In addition, Georgie Henley, Skandar Keynes, William Moseley and Anna Popplewell, returning as the Pevensie children, have matured, not only physically, but in their acting ability. There is a deftness and self assuredness this time around that surpasses the original, and makes for an extremely entertaining film.The story begins with Prince Caspian (Ben Barnes), nephew of Miraz (Sergio Castellito), the leader of the "Telmarines," the human population that is now the dominant race in Narnia, fleeing for his life when Miraz's wife gives birth to a son. Miraz usurped the throne from the rightful King, Caspian's father, and now that he has an heir of his own, he wants Caspian out of the way for good.Meanwhile, back in London, Peter and his siblings are trying to adjust to life in the real world. Peter is getting into fights because he can't bear people "treating him like a kid," after growing to adulthood before leaving Narnia, only to return at the exact age he was when he first stepped through the wardrobe. But in less time than it takes to board the London underground, the Pevensie's are once again transported back to the magical kingdom - only it is not the place they left. Over a thousand years have passed, and the castle of Cair Paravel lies in ruins. As the children struggle to find out what has happened, they stumble upon a Dwarf named Trumpkin (Peter Dinklage), who is being taken prisoner by abusive Telmarine soldiers. Susan, who doesn't seem to have had much opportunity to show off her finely honed archery skills at home in Finchley, eagerly takes the opportunity to rescue Trumpkin from his captors, and the surly old dwarf (whom Lucy and Edmund nickname "The D.L.F.", or "Dear Little Friend,") explains that all is not well in Narnia. It seems that not long after the High King Peter and his siblings left Narnia, the land was plunged into a dark age, and the Telmarines have ruled for hundreds of years with an iron fist. The days of the many creatures, including talking beasts, living in harmony together, have long since passed, and no one has seen or heard of Aslan the Lion in centuries. And what's more, the trees are no longer friends to the Narnians - they are just normal, everyday trees.It doesn't take long before the children meet up with Caspain, who is hiding out in the forest with a misfit band of followers, and soon the young would be heroes join forces in a plot to reclaim Narnia for the Narnians, and place Caspian, the rightful heir, on the throne.The film moves along at a steady, exciting pace, with skillfully staged action and suspense that will have audience members on the edge of their seats, and while in general it stays very faithful to the source material, there is quite a bit of added embellishment to make for a grander and more spectacular epic, with added battle and chase sequences that are deftly handled and add to the story and the level of excitement, where in less skilled hands they could have easily overtaken it. The level of action, and violence, is really quite a bit stronger than in the first film, and the film has a darker, grittier tone, which makes it something of a surprise that the filmmakers got away with a PG rating for what is clearly a PG-13 film. As mentioned before, the actors really step up to the plate this time, in particularly Keynes and Moseley as Peter and Edmund. But the most delightful performances come from the great Peter Dinklage (known for his brilliantly subtle turn in "The Station Agent," and perhaps best remembered as the diminutive author of children's books in "Elf") and Reepicheep, a bold and chivalrous mouse (voice of Eddie Izzard), who really steals the show. The effects are absolutely top notch, and in the final third the movie reaches such a fever pitch of excitement that it recalls Peter Jackson's "The Two Towers," arguably the most exciting installment of the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy.So, in the end, "Prince Caspian" may not be the profound allegorical tale that "The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe" was, or reach the same level of magical wonder, but it more than succeeds at what it sets out to do, and strongly indicates that there is a future in the Narnia franchise.
__label__8 This movie isn't half as charming or eloquently magical as the first, but it engages nonetheless.There's something about the young actors chosen to play the four major roles- Peter, Edmund, Susan and Lucy. They badly make you wish you were in their shoes. The film in itself is often reminiscent of LOTR, but the major difference being in a childlike simplicity this one retains.Aslan, despite not having much of a role, manages to be the most striking character, and Lucy is as lovable as she was in the first film.The battle scenes are brilliant, as are the landscapes. The power politics and senselessness of violence are dealt with a lot maturely in this film as compared to the first installment. At some point you realize you want at least a dozen more films revolving around these four siblings, and to be able to access Narnia for ever.The only thing that ruins this film is this strange invasion of Hollywood-like romance as a very annoying little subplot, and the sudden intrusion of a ridiculous song at a climactic point.Apart from that, I am pretty sure any fantasy-hound would enjoy this film a lot, and especially so if you're a big Lewis fan.I know I am.
__label__8 As far as the Pirates of the Caribbean movies go, On Stranger Tides may be lacking in the rollicking fun of Curse of the Black Pearl, which I absolutely loved, though it's closer in spirit to it than those of the two movies before, but I think it is better than Dead Man's Chest, which had great effects and a brilliant Bill Nighy but felt overlong and ferentic sometimes, and At World's End, which had the cast giving their all, great visuals, score and final battle but rather convoluted and bloated on the whole.On Stranger Tides isn't perfect. I did feel it did have perhaps have too many moments of exposition and clichés, though the story if slightly rickety in places here is less bloated noticeably and better paced than the film released before it which is a good thing. I also felt the romantic subplot(s) felt underdeveloped and forced, and while there are some droll, bizarre and witty quips particularly with Depp, Rush and Cruz there is a bit of filler that could have been excised.However, despite these complaints, On Stranger Tides is a worthy instalment. Once again, the production values are impeccable, the cinematography is skillful, the costumes, sets and period recreation is authentic and the effects are superb. The opening twenty minutes is an example of the writing being at its funniest and wittiest, and the scenes with the mermaids are beautifully shot and intriguing.While not perhaps original, and not among his best, I did very much like Hans Zimmer's score, which was rousing and brought some much-needed energy. The characters are not the best developed, but they are fun and there aren't too many of them to interrupt the flow of the story, a big problem I found with At World's End, while the action sequences are both exciting and nail-biting on the whole.I wasn't so sure about Rob Marshall as director, but he does a far better job than expected, and the film is livelier in pace than Dead Man's Chest and At World's End. The acting is good enough for what it was. Johnny Depp plays lovable rogue Jack Sparrow with a voluptuous swagger and sly humour and nails it again, while the idea to omit Kiera Knightley and Orlando Bloom here proved a good one, without them for my money the whole adventure carried less of a dead weight.Instead we have Penelope Cruz, who proves a perfect match for Depp. She is feisty, beautiful, foxy and sexy, and also likable and fun. I was wondering what they would do for villains without Bill Nighy, but I needn't have worried. Ian McShane is a worthy addition as Blackbeard, who is charming in a grizzly way while committing acts of great evil. Geoffrey Rush is underused in a way, but he does have some great lines and a fun presence so he isn't a complete waste.In conclusion, On Stranger Tides is not a perfect film, but as an instalment to a decent enough franchise it is a more than worthy one. And you know, what I've said about this movie was not something I thought I would be saying, because judging by what I'd seen of the advertising/trailers, it looked as though it was going be the worst of the series, but actually for me it wasn't. 7.5/10 Bethany Cox
__label__8 Boy, the way some people are acting on the web, you would think that Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides was the devil. I saw this movie opening day with pretty good expectations, because I love the Pirate movies, even if the third one is too complicated at times, I really enjoy these movies. Let's face it, we wouldn't have been brought back to the pirate genre if it wasn't for these movies. I agree that the plots should be more simple, but I don't mind a movie that challenges you along. I actually did love On Stranger Tides, even though it's not as good as the first one, I give much kudos for giving us something very fresh. Not to mention that it's shorter so I would think that more people would be pleased with that. But I think the cast still has it, Johnny Depp as Jack Sparrow is always such a pleasure to watch on screen. He and Penelope Cruz really lit up the screen and brought life into the series. This is a fun summer blockbuster with scary moments, funny characters and a swash buckling good time.Captain Jack Sparrow travels to London to locate a person who has been impersonating him. The imposter has been recruiting a crew to search for the legendary Fountain of Youth. Jack is brought before King George, who wants him to guide an expedition to the Fountain of Youth before the Spanish find it. Heading the expedition is Jack's old nemesis, Captain Hector Barbossa, now a privateer in service to the British Navy after having lost Jack's ship, the Black Pearl, as well as his leg. Jack escapes, and is found by his father, who warns Jack about the Fountain's tests. Jack's imposter is Angelica, his former lover and daughter of the ruthless pirate Blackbeard , who possesses supernatural powers and practices voodoo magic. Jack is forced to join Blackbeard's crew and to lead them to the Fountain.When I was a kid I absolutely adored the old movies, especially pirate movies like Captain Blood or Jason and the Argonauts. So these movies bring back the good ol' days and the magic of seeing these effects back on the big screen. While I do think that they are a little much for some children, I think any adult could get into these movies. Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush have great chemistry and bring the pirates to life, I could only imagine the type of fun they have during these films.I know that not everyone is a fan of pirates, I don't know if maybe it's due to the fact that the films were released so closely together that people got sick of it, I'm not sure. But I think if given the fair chance, you'll really enjoy this movie. This one has mermaids in it and the actual way that the myth is told, Disney had softened it up with The Little Mermaid and now brought it back to the truth. A warning in advance, that is a very scary scene I'm pretty sure most kids wouldn't be able to handle. But I thought it was extremely cool and very well done with the special effects. I'm also glad that they didn't go the safe route with the love story between Johnny and Penelope. However I really got bored easily with the Christian missionary and his love story with the mermaid was predictable and I think was their way of trying to replace Orlando Bloom and Kiera Knightly. But I had a good time watching this movie and I'm pretty sure if you're looking for a good time going into it, you will have fun. I'm honestly looking forward to the next pirates movie.8/10
__label__8 Enjoyed the flick very much. Love Depp and Cruz and everyone in it. Great story and a lot of fun. But why pay extra for 3D if the possible effects were not utilized. Nearly 60 years ago one-eyed director Andre de Toth mapped out 3D in the Vincent Price House of Wax much more cleverly than is utilized in this Pirates. Old 3D movies showed very specific (if exaggerated) depth and did not hesitate to throw things out of the screen at the audience. I sometimes wonder if modern 3D movies are even shot in 3D as most scenes seem to lack that illusion of depth. Kudos to the film itself, a lot of fun. But be aware that the 3D claim is a rip off. (I saw it in Real 3D, perhaps the iMax version is more effective.)
__label__8 Greetings again from the darkness. I will make no apology for being a fan of the "Pirates" series. This is the fourth film and the best since the first. Though I liked them enough, I felt the second and third depended too much on special effects and the need to overwhelm, whereas this one concentrates more on the colorful characters. This latest entry is also directed by Rob Marshall ("Chicago") rather than Gore Verbinski, who directed the first three.Of course, what really matters is that Johnny Depp is back as Captain Jack Sparrow. And in fine form, I might add. He comes across more clever, witty and less buffoonish than in the previous two. His character is much better as a worthy adversary than a clown prince. In this one, he alternates between matching wits and swords with no less than three characters. First, Geoffrey Rush is back as Barbossa. Only this time, he seems to have gone legit with the King's navy. Next we have Sparrow's long-lost love from Seville played by Penelope Cruz. They also match wits and swords (and facial hair). Lastly, we have the legendary pirate Blackbeard, played with full force by Ian McShane. Were it not a Disney movie, McShane could have made his Blackbeard one of the most frightening characters ever seen on screen. Even with the limitations, he performs exceedingly well.The "plot" of the film involves the search for Ponce de Leon's ship and the much desired Fountain of Youth. The race is on between Sparrow, Blackbeard, the Spainiards and Barbossa who is acting on behalf of King George (a wonderful Richard Griffiths). As always, it's not always easy to tell which characters are partners and which are adversaries. That's half the fun! An interesting twist is that in order to have the desired results from the infamous fountain, one must drink from a specific chalice and include a single mermaid tear. Of course, everlasting youth shouldn't be too easy to achieve. The mermaid sequences are fascinating, though we really only get to know one of them - Syrena played with soulful eyes by Astrid Berges-Frisbey.Thankfully, two long time characters are absent from this film - Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley. Both were dead-weight that caused major drag in the two most recent Pirates films. Cruz and McShane are infinitely more interesting and entertaining and play off of Captain Jack much better.Speaking of Depp's Jack Sparrow, I would make the argument that this character has entered the rarefied air of film comedy icon. I would put him at or near the level of the all-time best recurring comic characters: Inspector Clouseau (Peter Sellers, NOT Steve Martin), Austin Powers (Mike Myers) and the Little Tramp (Charlie Chaplin). Of course, there are loads of others that have made a name for themselves but are a step below: Ernest (Jim Varney), Fletch (Chevy Chase), Wayne and Garth (Wayne's World), Riggs and Murtaugh (Lethal Weapon), etc. I could go on and on, but you get the idea.As I have stated many times, comedy is such a personal choice that it's always difficult to review. What sets the Pirate's films apart (especially one and four) are the characters combined with action and witty banter. No, it's not for everyone, but if you like this style, it's difficult to beat.
__label__8 I can imagine that many has been sitting with a feeling if the Pirates concept is going too far(Specially after POC nr.3) but thanks to a tight script this fourths installment of POC is definitely worth a watch.I personally didn't like the 3rd one cause of too much talk and confusion, but this one lives up to the first two.Jack Sparow and captain Barbosa are the scene stealer s, their chemistry is Top-Notch. Cruz and rest of the crew did very well.And thank god that Orlanda Bloom and that Skinny girl is not in the movie.Go for this movie, it got everything from comedy, action, adventure and the most important: Captain Jack Sparow.
__label__8 What Rob Marshall did with Pirates series, no one else could have done with such finesse and panache. Dropping out two key protagonists without explanations and instead of picking on famous novels, he opted for rather under-rated Tim Power's On Stranger Tides to fit the characters.Similarly, what Johnny Depp has been doing in all Pirates movies and what he did in this movie, no one else could have done it with such perfection. That's Johnny Depp(Jack Sparrow) for you.Most of you must have seen Indian Jones and the Last Crusade, I guess. You're gonna have a feel of Deja Vu in many of the scenes. Following an appropriately pulpy prologue, the film opens on erstwhile Captain Jack Sparrow (Depp) as he's marooned in London in search of a ship, and pursued by local authorities who he makes little serious effort to avoid. Hearing that an impostor Sparrow is auditioning pirate recruits at a seaside bar, he seeks out the interloper only to discover his spitfire former lover Angelica (Penelope Cruz), disguised as him After some requisite sword-clashing, Angelica kidnaps Sparrow and ferries him aboard the Queen Anne's Revenge, lorded over by Angelica's (maybe) father, Captain Blackbeard (Ian McShane). Commanding a crew comprised of equal parts stray pirates and hulking zombies -- why he needs the former when he has the latter is never explained -- Blackbeard enlists Sparrow to help him locate the fountain of youth, which becomes an especially urgent task after a prophecy foretells Blackbeard's imminent death at the hands of a one-legged man.Meanwhile, Sparrow's rival Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush), now conveniently one-legged, has bid farewell to his pirate's life, and seeks the fountain on behalf of the king of England, who is keen to find it before a rival crew sent by the king of Spain can claim it for themselves. As the three parties converge on the fountain's jungle location, they must also deal with a ravenous horde of vampiric mermaids, from whom a single tear must be procured to drink the fountain's waters.In case any one of you haven't seen the previous movies, frequent recaps are provided through out and it doesn't matter too much anyway. Depp remains the face of the film. But a majority of his thunder is co-opted by an on-point Rush, who not only gets the funniest lines and reaction shots, but also starts to siphon away much of the roguish charm that used to be Depp's stock and trade. McShane, on the other hand, is underwhelming. Never appearing comfortable in his heavy pirate get-up, his tired Blackbeard is only menacing via other characters' testimonials to his evil, and his one on screen atrocity seems tossed in merely to stress that he is, in fact, the bad guy.Cruz is a reliably welcome, gorgeous presence, though she too often falls back on the "feisty Latina" signifiers that have been the crutch of so much of her English-language work. Sam Claflin supplies some semi- risible gallantry as a super-studly priest, and Astrid Berges-Frisbey looks effectively terrified as a captive mermaid.All in all, it is must watch for everybody who is a fan of Pirates series and Johnny Depp. Go for it and chances are less of you being disappointed.Thanks & Regards,My Rating: 8/10
__label__8 I am not exactly a Will Smith fan. I think the last Will Smith film I watched and liked was the first "Men in Black" film back in 1997. I was surprised to learn that there will be another installment of "Men in Black" this year, the third of the series. The second MiB was shown in 2002, and I did not even care to finish that one. Will the ten years between the last episode and this one make a difference? I needed to see that.In this film, a vicious alien villain known as Boris the Animal escapes from his prison on the moon, where he had been locked up since being arrested by Agent K (Tommy Lee Jones) back in 1969. One day, Agent K disappears from the present day. His partner Agent J (Will Smith) realizes that K had been assassinated by Boris forty years ago, which caused a major change of events, allowing Boris' alien race to overrun the Earth. J had to find a way to travel back in time to 1969 in order to save K and rectify the tragic consequences of his death. Can J save K and in turn save the Earth from the clutches of Boris?The odd couple was just as they were before in the first films. Will Smith is still his old loudmouth Agent J as Tommy Lee Jones was his tight-lipped Agent K. As J goes back to the past, he will interact with the young 29-year old K, perfectly played by Josh Brolin. Brolin amazingly captures the laconic persona, and even the distinct voice, of Jones so well that they seemed to have been one and the same actor. It was also good to see Emma Thompson again in a major film as she portrayed Agent O, another senior agent with a soft spot for K. The younger Agent O was played by a cutie named Alice Eve, but she certainly did not convince us that she would look or act like Emma Thompson when she grows older.I must say that this film was really a most entertaining one. Well, maybe more for me than for my kids. Younger audiences may find the jokes about 1969 cultural references, such as the hippies, the racial tension, etc., to be a bit difficult to grasp. But the fun action sequences with some exciting futuristic vehicles and weaponry, the imaginative and repulsive aliens made by no less than the master monster-maker Rick Baker, the thrilling integration of the historic Apollo 11 lift-off, and the touching revelation of K's big secret made this a very good and enjoyable movie to watch. 3D did not seem necessary. Director Barry Sonnenfeld got it right this time, and this segment certainly gave perfect closure to the story arc of the whole series.
__label__8 Once again our favorite MIB agents Jay & Kay are battling it out for earth. Quick action, colorful villains, beautifully designed settings and CGI, comic relief in the face of imminent destruction, all those made the first two movies great as well as successful in the box office. Could they better the formula in the face of all the other bad sequels we have been seeing for years? This is one of the reasons I had stepped into the cinema with trepidation. (Good grief, was it 1997 when I saw the first and ten years ago the second? How time flies). The other reason was the pitfall of time travel.Time travel is one of the favorite themes in sci fi movies but it needs to be handled carefully. My humble word of advice to the script writers: Keep-It-Simple. Avoid overtly complicated jumps back and forth and paradoxes that confuse the audience. Remember the eventual mess in the Back To The Future trilogy? I was then so pleased to see that they kept the time travel relatively simple and easy to follow. There was a small part when they crossed the line juuust a tiny bit when young agent Kay meets a certain father and son (don't want to spoil it). Even if traveling back in time was possible, you wouldn't necessarily bump into everyone you know in the present.Will Smith is in his usual good form in his character Jay which however needs Kay to balance him. It is then fortunate that Brolin gives a great performance as the young agent.Was it better than the 1997original? It was as good, without the novelty value obviously. Was it as good as the MIB2? I would say that it surpassed the second.
__label__8 It is really hard to believe that it has been 10 years since the last Men in Black film. I have to say that this film was much better than the last film which was really just a regurgitation of the first one. This film had a lot more substance and managed to tie up some loose ends which I really appreciated. I think that this film works in 3D because there is a lot of falling through time, which my niece and nephew loved. I have to give major props to Josh Brolin (younger Agent K) who had the daunting task of portraying an actor portraying a role. Tommy Lee Jones (old Agent K) just basically had to be himself (smile). Josh was totally convincing and did an excellent job imitating Tommy's persona. I liked the introduction of Agent O (Emma Thompson) who had one of the funniest scenes in the film and literally had me laughing out loud. I also liked the fact that a women was in charge of such a prestigious agency. As usual Will Smith (Agent J) came up with very comical explanations of the weird situations that occur during the film. I think that my favorite character in the film is Griffin (Michael Stuhlbarg). He was a psychic who could see into the various futures that could occur if certain things happen. I was a little confused at first, but as the film progressed, I finally got it. I related to this character because I have always believed that you always have at least two doors to open (e.g. you can pick up that piece of paper or not) and whatever you decide to do affects everything else. Okay, enough of philosophy class and back to the film. The one thing about all the Men in Black films is all of the different characters that the visual effect crew create. You have to appreciate the imagination of those folks. I also like to check out the aliens that they are monitoring at the agency, for example in the first one they were monitoring Michael Jackson and Agent J's elementary school teacher. Appropriately in this film you get flashes of Lady Gaga and Justin Bieber (appropriately). I wonder if they have to agree to that? Anyway, this was a very entertaining film and you will be glad that you saw it in 3D. I give this film an out-of-this-world green light. Enjoy!!!
__label__8 It was 1997 when Men in Black first burst onto the big screen featuring a successful pairing of Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones as unlikely partners in the protection of Earth against the scum of the universe, with action, special effects and generous doses of comedy rolled into one. Directed by Barry Sonnenfield, they returned five years later for a sequel, and chances for a third film got hovered around for the longest time, finally taking up to a decade before it materialized, taking advantage of the needless 3D format to deliver the latest installment of the popular series.And it's still a lot of fun with the return of Agent Jay (Will Smith) and Kay (Tommy Lee Jones) in a new adventure set around the break out of the villainous alien Boris the Animal (Jemaine Clement) from a lunar maximum prison to take revenge on Kay for the severing of an arm and its imprisonment, not to mention also wiping out its compatriots and protecting the Earth from annihilation. Yes, Kay is credited for plenty of work done back in his heydays of the 60s, and we're about to find out a lot more about his deadpan character, which is almost always the punching bag for Jay, who makes it his mission to reverse what Boris had set out to do, which is to travel back in time and taking out Kay.It's MIB meets Back to the Future with its time travelling element back to the 60s, armed with only limited knowledge of his partner's whereabouts, no thanks to information being classified over and above Jay's pay grade, despite 14 years of dedicated service. The story by Ethan Cohen, David Koepp, Jeff Nathanson and Michael Soccio proved to be a winner, steering clear of having too many cooks with potential of spoiling the broth, making that time travel bit pretty much a trip down nostalgic lane, filled with incidents and prominent characters from history, such as Andy Warhol (Bill Hader) and the Apollo 11 crew, and the tongue in cheek treatment with aliens being very much leaping from typical 60s television and films.This makes up more than its share of laughs and inside jokes that continue in the same spirit from the earlier films, even poking fun at the racial divide of the time, which provided a fair challenge for Jay as he meets up with the younger Kay (Josh Brolin) who has to be convinced that his new found friend is his partner from the future, and have to work together to rein in the 1969 version of Boris the Animal. Tommy Lee Jones made way for Josh Brolin to own the character of Jay, and in truth Brolin does a remarkable job of closely mimicking Jones, aptly adding a lot more to the back story of the legendary MIB who has his fair share of one liners, but being a little bit less stern than Jay had grown accustomed to.Characterization also got pushed to the forefront with a deeper exploration into each of Jay and Kay's characters, backgrounds and their friendship, and this helped the film tremendously, instead of being a mediocre effort relying solely on the actors charisma and washing everything down in CG glory. There are still some surprises from the effects kept under wraps from the trailers, so that's a good thing, and I suppose much of the graphics work went into recreating 60s USA, as well as earlier, more cumbersome versions of tools of the trade that MIB uses back then. Alien designs also got a spruce up, looking far more menacing, and disgusting even, with Boris the Animal possessing and using deadly force that I'm rather surprised at for a PG rated film.Will Smith shows that he hasn't lost his edge and still has what it takes, even after being absent from the big screen for some 4 years now (Seven Pounds and Hancock were his last outing in 2008), and still comes off as a natural, and likable as Agent Jay, with a lot more polish as an MIB veteran as compared to when he got first recruited. Tommy Lee Jones got only a supporting role this time round, with Josh Brolin left responsible to carry the role of the younger K for the most parts of the film. The Smith-Brolin pairing was also a winner, though likely to be one off only for this movie, but you can guess how any sequel made after this could go - either to continue with Smith-Jones in the current timeline, or having Brolin helm his own, partnering another Agent in adventures set in the past. And joining the cast in prominent, though limited roles, include the likes of Emma Thompson as Agent O, taking over as the new MIB Chief with the passing of Zed, Alice Eve playing the younger O, and both Michael Stuhlbarg and Mike Colter adding depth to the MIB mythos.Still, with every time travel movie, there are paradoxes that have to be consciously ignored for everything to work. While some aspects work in having being explained away, others necessary and crucial to the plot become glaringly obvious, especially in the finale where it showed some shades of similarity from A Chinese Odyssey. But all is forgiven for something canonical to be added to the adventures of the MIB, providing audiences with new appreciation for the leading MIBs Jay and Kay, rather than to rely on louder and bigger explosions for the sake of keeping up with the summer Joneses. MIB3 is a clear winner, and worthy of what the previous two films had already set up. Highly recommended!
__label__8 Only five years after the universally-hated Spider-Man 3(not me, though), Columbia Pictures have decided to give Peter Parker and his alter ego, Spider-man a fresh start. This film is essentially quite similar to 2002's film, but also features a few differences mainly a personality change in Peter. I don't know if I like this film any better than the original trilogy. This film is action-packed, has a great cast, and a rather fun villain in "The Lizard," but this film doesn't live up to the trilogy that gave Spider-Man a name for himself.Marc Webb's film explores the origins of Spider-Man and also unlike the trilogy, we learn more about Peter's past including what happened to his family. As Peter is exploring his past, he is lead to his father's former partner who happens to be too smart for his own good. Also, Peter strikes a relationship with the daughter of the police captain, Gwen Stacy.The acting is really not too bad. An Andrew Garfield/Emma Stone pairing is not as good as the Maguire/Dunst pairing, but they still do very good and it's nice to see some cockiness in Peter's attitude instead of complete nerdiness. The Lizard, played wonderfully by Rhys Ifans, is a good villain to watch. The rest of the cast rounded out with Denis Leary, Martin Sheen, and Sally Field gives this film some starpower.Overall, this is definitely not a bad film and it's very entertaining. But we must ask ourselves, is this a necessary reboot? Honestly, I would rather have seen a Spider-Man 4, but who's to complain. This is a solid entry into the superhero genre despite really offering anything new. But hey I was entertained and that is all what matters. I rate this film 8/10.
__label__8 not the best film but a great film for a action movie. it follows the comics a little. when I saw the film I saw it in 3D man it was good but this maybe is the best spider man film. a action film for people who likes action . but for some will say it is the worst spider man film . like the school scene that scene was a good scene really action the building the sewer this could also be a family film .this did not waste my time my buddies also liked it so did a lot of people .recommended film for people. good acting good movie . since marvel is better than DC in my opinion so I liked it a lot. but at this film it looks like peter parker or spider man seemed weaker than the past film. really action good for kids adults etc.If you are a fan of spider man you will like this.the villain the lizard was was really powerful maybe stronger than some villains in marvel. the spider man villains usually is stronger than a lot of other villainsGood film overall 8/10
__label__8 IMO, i think the super A plus to this movie is the realistic application of physics. It shows a more limited spiderman. He must operate within parabolic physics and they tie that into the story.I thought this spiderman was a more fun, spunkier, angstier Peter Parker. He was definitely way more nerdy than Toby Mcguire.The addition of Gwen was great and I really look forward to seeing how this franchise manages upcoming installments under the new label.Dialogue was slightly lame, key point being, "Gwen! Gwen! I understand! Your boyfriend is a man of many masks!" CHEESY!!!!My other knock was that it spent the entire time developing the angst of peter parker and didn't give enough development to Gwen, Aunt May, and Doc. Connor.I am a huge marvel guy, so i will continue to watch with a sense of forgiveness for the many flaws that Comic to Movie translations present.I am glad I waited for DVD because so few movies obtain that silver screen quality. If you liked this movie check out the other Marvel and DC titles. They are doing some decent work.
__label__8 When i first saw the trailer of this movie last year, i thought- another Spiderman movie?, and again earlier this year- seriously, another Spiderman move?. In all honesty, i was not compelled to watch the movie- may be it was the trailer or that thought of how far can a Spiderman movie be different than the one produced about a decade ago? How 'amazing' can it be, as its title suggests?After going against the odds, i came out from the movie very pleased. In fact, i enjoyed the move thoroughly and felt very entertained. And i finally understood the word 'amazing' in the title- because it is really, pretty amazing!It is not one of those movies with excessive ZOMG factor, for sure. The movie is amazingly captured with great use of CGI. The first half of the movie explores the dark side of Peter Parker's family history in a fairly comical manner. I got to know about Peter's father, which was not much explained in the previous trilogy and i don't exactly read the comics.Then there is his high school stories of his love. The next half of the movie was gripping and fast-paced, with well angled shots to make you feel like swinging from building to building and climbing up towers- i watched it in 2D and i could still feel the height! This part of the movie focuses on the transformation of Dr Connors as the Lizard, the villain of this movie, who happens to be Peter's father's working partner. His wish to regenerate his arm goes awry, leading him to produce a biological threat that forces Spiderman to a race to save the people in the city.As i said, i was entertained. The movie was light hearted, like watching The Captain America, with brilliant cast. Andrew G performs magnificently as Peter Parker, to a certain extent, i felt him outshine Tobey M. He fits the character well. I enjoyed the scene where he first discovers of his special ability, particularly with the flipping of his skateboard. Much credits to Emma Stone, Sally Field, Martin Sheen and Rhys I, and director Marc Webb for taking the risk of rebooting this franchise. Watch out for Stan Lee in a show-stopper scene. Flash, played by Chris, gives me the feeling of a sequel where he will be featured in a bigger role- like Jacob in Twilight.Give this Spiderman a try. For a two-hour movie, this movie does not fall short and does not feel long. And a sequel is pretty likely- stay for the post-credit (duh! almost all Marvel movies has this).I have to say this one more time: The Amazing Spiderman is amazing.
__label__8 Going back a few years when Sam Raimi's Spiderman released it was jaw dropping. It was sort of the spring board for the current excess of superhero films we see now. Most of us were definitively disappointed in Spiderman 3 but disappointed enough that we thought it should end the franchise and encourage a reboot only TWO years later? Fortunately for them the reboot isn't so bad and actually very entertaining and spidey fans won't be disappointed. I don't think its nearly as good as the original Raimi's Spiderman but then at that time it was new and fresh and captivating to see a live action, non-campy superhero on screen. The Amazing Spiderman does manage to make itself different enough to make you not feel like you're watching something you've seen a dozen times over. Its a different spin on the Spiderman story while still keeping key elements firmly in place (maybe Marc Webb should give Zack Snyder a few tips.) They also establish enough back story to make this a lucrative franchise for at least three films if they don't screw it up some way and get it scrapped like they did the first time around. At the same time of being different enough it isn't really that far fetched from Raimi's trilogy. It still has the same feel and intensity and solid special effects. As someone who despises CGI I didn't find it silly or overused (though its clearly used a lot) its done very well including The Lizard who is complete CGI.If they absolutely had to do this then Andrew Garfield was a great choice for the role of Peter Parker and Spiderman to a lesser extent. Its funny because I always thought Tobey Maguire made a great Spiderman but lacked as Peter Parker and Andrew Garfield makes a great, awkward, angsty teen Peter Parker but lacks something significant as Spiderman. I don't know what it is...but its something. Still he is at least good in both roles. Emma Stone is terrific as Gwen Stacy. Her chemistry with Garfield is perfect (though again not quite as good as Dunst and Maguire) and she shows once again why she's one of the best young talents in Hollywood. Stone outdoes herself in her role. Rhys Ifans is also perfectly suited as our villain Kurt Connors/The Lizard. Playing a villain (especially a giant Lizard) is extremely difficult to not make campy but Ifans plays it very seriously and is a very viable enemy. He absolutely brings the comic villain genius to life. Denis Leary is a great addition to as Gwen's father and Police Captain who is also somewhat of a nemesis for Spiderman and Peter Parker. His character adds a certain layer of depth to the story and he plays it very seriously even when he's being sarcastic and angry. It wouldn't even be fathomable for me to mention Martin Sheen and Sally Field, two absolute legends of Hollywood playing Uncle Ben and Aunt May. Sadly they are very underused and only have a few good scenes in the beginning of the film but I wanted to see more of them because of who they are as actors.Part of the issue I had with The Amazing Spiderman was perhaps the lack of emotional depth, the human side that we miss out on. The connection between Peter and his Uncle and Aunt isn't quite felt as well as it should have been. I wasn't moved enough when Uncle Ben was killed. However, this film gets definitively and absolutely better as it goes on. The end of the film is superior to the first part in every way. Its intense, emotional, action packed and jaw dropping. If the entire film was at the quality of the latter half it might have been a ten. The High School Spiderman/Lizard fight is legendary (especially with one of Stan Lee's best cameos), the scenes between Garfield and Leary and the final battle all make this an absolute must see. Marc Webb did an excellent job of creating something that could have and almost should have been a disaster into a viable and watchable franchise. I wanted to complain about how incredibly cheesy and melodramatic the "crane" scene was during the last scene but darned if it didn't make me get goosebumps and feel all warm and squishy. One thing is for certain, there isn't a Spiderman fan out there that can't say this isn't well done and very entertaining. There is some terrific Spiderman imagery (again especially towards the end.) Let's hope Marc Webb can hold this together throughout the franchise's life. Its greatest feat was to overcome was being far too soon for it to be made and it does overcome that. 8.5/10
__label__8 Great previews usually lead to great movies, and there's a fantastic preview right before "Spidey". When I first heard about Andrew Garfield and Emma Stone heading this cast, I thought that it would be amazing. This film's previews looked great. Here's finally, the end product, and it's for the most part a fantastic movie, and the only criticism that we can come up with is that too bad it wasn't perfect, that the villain was well, not up to the rest of the story. Originally, the fear was that it was too soon to remake it; then you hope some good writer is part of the package (Argent) comes in, and we can see his touch, giving each of the central stars juicy lines to make them real, interesting, and endearing.Andrew Garfield is the best thing that could have happened to the franchise. His eyes are full of wonder, inquiring, able to convey a myriad of emotions in seconds, and his genuine chemistry with Stone certainly makes us care about what could happen to either one. She is not a typical damsel-in-distress, and here's a hero who can shed a few tears in the right place without looking insincere or stupid. This is particularly important in the early scenes involving the incident with his uncle, and his yearning for his long-lost father.Yet the film is a lot of fun, specially in the learning stages of his newly-acquired powers, when he can't really understand what is happening to his body. "Chronicle" did this effectively, but there was always an impending sense of doom. Here's only our expectations about how powerful he might become, which leads to the point of his nemesis, a terrific looking being that is well, not very threatening, particularly in this summer, full of some terrific antagonists.The special effects are fantastic, and New York hasn't looked this great in years. Watching Spiderman swing from building to building, and his little adventure in the sewer system of Gotham City is exciting. The best we can say is that here is another part that feels just right. If only Lizard Man's ego has been unleashed in the way that a few other egomaniacs have shown up recently. Remember the psychotic Joker, and that prince from another galaxy demanding respect from his "new subjects"? I loved the claws, but if the best you can do is scratch people with it...? Back to Garfield's acting... This young man is one of the best things to come out of England/Hollywood recently. He can certainly carry a film and make it better and stronger than it might be. We want to continue seeing his adventures. Let's just give someone or something more terrifying and more threatening to go against next time.**** out *****.
__label__8 I have to admit I had low expectations for The Amazing Spider-Man. Yes, I enjoyed the first of Tobey Maguire's outings as Spidey back in 2002 but the quality diminished with each sequel to the point that I didn't care if a fourth installment came to fruition or not. More than anything, it was the feeling I had a mere five years after the last installment, and I'm sure I'm not alone in this, of 'Why another Spider-Man so soon?' However, the decision to return to the timeline of the source comics and introduce Gwen Stacy as Peter Parker's girlfriend (instead of the more familiar Mary Jane Watson) increased the interest. Maybe this would be a new approach. Then the casting of Andrew Garfield intrigued. His superb turns in Never Let Me Go and in the more widely seen The Social Network certainly suggested he may have something new to bring to the part. The trailer clinched it for me, hinting at a Spider-Man Begins leaning. If Christopher Nolan could obliterate the camp, tarnished Adam West Batman with a completely reinvented trilogy, what could director Marc Webb (500 Days of Summer) create with The Amazing Spider-Man? It's not Batman Begins, let's get that straight immediately. Nolan's trilogy stands head and shoulders above all other superhero films at the moment and is unlikely to be dethroned any time soon. But The Amazing Spider-Man is a huge success and an extremely enjoyable first foray into Spidey world by all involved and this is down to some fine writing by James Vanderbilt (who has just penned next year's RoboCop reboot) and the courage of Webb not to rush into the action and villain chasing too soon.A large part of the film is spent meeting, understanding and developing a relationship with Peter Parker through his childhood, the loss of his parents, his relationship with his aunt and uncle, the death of his uncle and his decision to become the superhero and gradual evolution of his crime-fighting alter ego. We see that Peter is flawed. He's cocky at times, he's angry, emotionally wounded, damaged goods and incredibly lonely. When he's bullied at school, it isn't the obvious type of bullying that results in a dramatic conversion to prize-fighting champion, it's the slow, constant drip-drip that niggles, that eats away at confidence and distills the inner turmoil to anger that could easily become rage but veers towards sulky stubbornness and carries its own consequences.Such time is spent with the family that when Aunt May (Sally Field on fine form that surely must lead to more screen time in the sequel) rebukes Peter we, too, sit up and listen and when Uncle Ben (the ever-excellent Martin Sheen in another flawlessly strong and sincere performance) is murdered in front of his nephew, though we know it will happen and is only on a screen, it wrenches our gut and we know Peter's anguish for ourselves.When Gwen steps into Peter's life it, too, is gradual and believable. There are no great fireworks or sudden changes but a slow maturing of their friendship into something stronger. The chemistry between Garfield and Emma Stone (so much more watchable here than in the good but overrated The Help earlier this year) is tangible and a pleasure to witness. They work together, they suit each other and one really hopes they stay together.Inevitably, the superhero must eventually take centre stage and the catalyst has to be an (almost) equally super villain. In this instance it's Rhys Ifans' Dr. Curt Connors, aka The Lizard, with a destructive agenda. So good has The Amazing Spider-Man been up to this point that it's almost a pity when The Lizard arrives at all. It has to happen and it brings with it an increased level of excitement and action but something dims, the quality dips slightly and it becomes a more predicable, certainly a more standard comic book flick.Ifans is dangerously close to panto villain at times but in his human form he is straight enough to offset the predictable swerves in naturalism and believability when he transmogrifies into lizard form. His make-up is better than the CGI and at times The Lizard's moves are clumsy and the facial expressions lacking in emotion. In the wide shots, however, Spider-Man's leaps and swings are far smoother and more elegant than in the Maguire years and are a minor annoyance when they are less than perfect rather than a jarring disturbance.The Amazing Spider-Man is very good indeed and I am, for the first time, looking forward to Spidey sequel but I'm guessing the real amazement will come next week when at last The Dark Knight Rises.For more reviews from The Squiss subscribe to my blog at www.thesquiss.co.uk
__label__8 There was no way I was going to miss this film, but after reading a number of reviews by fans here I began to have some reservations. Most of that had to do with the retelling of the origin, and fundamentally I agree that this probably wasn't necessary after only ten years since the Tobey McGuire version. But now that I've seen it, I can say my second thoughts were unwarranted because this film provides an adrenaline rush with every spider web fired.I always had this unsettled feeling with the McGuire Spider-Man, or more accurately, with the McGuire Peter Parker. I found him to be too much of a wuss, wimping out whenever confronted as the timid teenager. With Andrew Garfield, I didn't get the impression he was OK to let things go whenever a bully came on the scene. With only one picture under his belt as opposed to Tobey's three, I'm going with the new kid in town.Whether intended or not, I also preferred the darker tone to this take on the Spidey character. Many of the action scenes occurred at night and better conveyed a sense that this costumed hero might be more of a menace than a friend. Peter Parker's dinner clash with Captain Stacy (Denis Leary) helped push that agenda and it worked pretty well.As for the main villain, a mixed reaction. There were times The Lizard (Rhys Ifans) looked a bit corny and other times truly menacing. It seemed to me that the film had trouble establishing the villain's proportion in relation to Spider-Man and other humans. In some scenes he looked like a monster, at others merely somewhat larger than Spider-Man. However the concept of cross-species genetics on which The Lizard came to being was handled rather well and proved effective.As always, my favorite moment in a Marvel hero movie did not leave me disappointed. Stan Lee makes a cameo appearance once again, this time as the oblivious librarian listening to a symphony while Spidey and The Lizard make a shambles of the bookcases in the background. I can't believe he'll be ninety at the end of this year.
__label__8 This is not exactly Robin and his merry men, nor is this Errol Flynn swashbuckling and laughing his way through merry old England as he gets his jollies battling the sheriff of Nottingham. No, this particular take on the story of Robin Hood is very different - like none you've ever seen before. Even the historical setting is changed from what's usually offered. Here, rather than waiting out the evil regency of Prince John and his minions until King Richard returns from the Crusades, Richard is already dead. His death comes very early on in the movie in battle in France. John is the King of England in this movie, and rather than an unselfish "robbing the rich to give to the poor" type character, Robin (actually in this movie Robin Longstride, who finds himself impersonating Robert of Locksley and becomes known as "Robin of the Hood") is a more complex character. I wouldn't say exactly noble - especially in the beginning - and his battle is not so much for the poor as it's a battle for the "rights" of the English people, as he eventually takes on what seems to be the fight to get John to sign what I assume is Magna Carta, and at least temporarily has to ally himself with John to help lead the defence of England against a French invasion.The different historical setting is a bit disorienting to be honest - especially at first - but it also gives a degree of unpredictability to what's going to happen, and once you get a sense of where you are, when you are and what the fight is about it's easy enough to understand what's going on. Russell Crowe did a commendable job, I thought, in this alternate portrayal of Robin, and Cate Blanchett was most certainly a different kind of Marion. She's not the Maid Marion of legend. She's tough, she's a fighter, she goes into battle with the French - although not leading the battle, there's almost a Joan of Arc quality to her (minus the voice of God.) I was quite taken with Oscar Isaac as King John. He took the part and made it real. John came across as I would expect him to from the historical record - shifty and conniving, untrustworthy, quite willing to make and break whatever alliances are necessary at any given moment to ensure his survival as King and sometimes quite befuddled by his responsibilities. Perhaps a weakness was the fact that there was no real focus on Robin's men. Really only Will Scarlett (played by Scott Grimes) and Friar Tuck (played by Mark Addy) were significant elements in the story, and even they weren't particularly important.The sets and setting were good. This felt like I imagine England in the late 12th-early 13th centuries would have felt like. Rough, brutal, dirty. It worked for me. The battle scenes (and there are a lot of them) are very well done. Since the movie ends with the caption "And so the legend begins" one wonders if a sequel might be in the works, perhaps detailing the struggle leading up to the actually signing of Magna Carta? If so, I'd definitely watch it. This was quite good! (8/10)
__label__8 Robin Hood, Robin Hood riding through the glen, Robin Hood with his band of Merry Men: you will get none of that in this new verison of the legend. With Ridley Scott Russell Crowe have created new type of Robin Hood for these an audience who want to gritty verison the legend who has been constantly re-invented.1199, England has been suffering from the heavy burden of taxation to fund Richard I's (Danny Huston) wars and the countryside was suffering from social problems with war orphans running wild. Richard I's army was marching through France to get back to England after the Crusades and looting and the raiding the French as much as possible whilst on the way. Robin Longstride (Russell Crowe) and his friends are archers within the army. When Richard I died in battle they fled and Robin assumes the identity of a English lord who has been murdered in an ambush. Godfrey (Mark Strong), an English knight and an adviser to King John (Oscar Issac) secretly meets with the French with a plot to make the new king unpopular and force the nation into civil war, thereby weakening England and making the kingdom easy to invade. Robin goes to Nottingham and gives the news to Sir Walter Loxley (Max von Sydow) and Lady Maiden (Cate Blanchett) that their son and husband has died. They suggest that Robin continues to pretend that he was really Sir Robert Loxley and as the man Robin becomes a leading figure to unite the kingdom to stop the impending invasion.Scott is one of the best directors around for historical film: he has shown a great skill for taking people back to another time and show what the period would have been like (even if he has to take a few liberties to the historical facts). With Robin Hood he shows that the Medieval period was dark and dirty, even for members of the gentry. Battles are hard and brutal, though they is a lot less blood then there was in Gladiator, which is a shame. Scott, with his screenwriter Brain Helgeland, set out a more complex, balance picture. Richard I was not made out to be the great king people think he is because of his heavy taxation and ruthless nature. John was made out to be someone who was dogmatic and naïve, but not someone wanting to be a tyrant just for the fun of it. He was portrayed in a more sympathetic light to what has been shown in the past. It was Godfrey who was the main villain and in the Medieval period national loyalty was not such a big issue as it is today. This is all refreshing to see when most films just show a black and white world.Scott delivers some excellent battle scenes in this film during. But he slows the film down long enough to allow the plot to develop and adds a little bit of humour. This is however a less bloody epic to allow a slightly younger audience to see it. There is the theme of the idea of a king's right to govern, but this is mostly an action, not a historical film about Medieval government.Crowe and Scott reunite again and Crowe gives a solid performance as a rougher and tougher Robin. Blanchett too is solid as an older Maiden, showing she is a tough woman who also willing to fight: a woman that properly would not have existed in this period. Strong shows once again that he is a excellent villain, having stared in Sherlock Holmes and Kick-Ass, a man who thinks about his own self interest. Strong has been making a good career as villain for hire and he was the strongest actor in the film. The American in this English set film did well, William Hurt was very strong as the wronged advice in the King's court, whilst Huston seemed to be having a blast as Richard I and obviously shows he is not as noble he seems.Helgeland wrote a clever script, showing Medieval ideology and a complex political situation. His previous Medieval film was A Knight's Tale, which he wrote and directed. But with Robin Hood he seems to have grown up as a writer and gives this film a little more of a complex plot and shows a bigger picture. He also cleverly mixes different aspects about how the legend has changed, like how Robin starting as a commoner and pretends to be a higher ranked man. The film also covers its bases by showing the two sites places that claim to be Robin's home, Nottingham and Barnsdale. However this film felt like an origins story, a start to a new film series. This is Robin Hood that has not been seen on screen like this before. Hopefully if there is a sequel then Matthew MacFadyen as the Sheriff of Nottingham would get a bigger role. Robin Hood is also historically suspect, with events and dates being changed and made up, some ideas and culture also seems to be the victim of artistic license. But Scott knows that storytelling requires character development and show a more balanced picture, particularly with historically set films. At least this film does accept that it is a piece of historical fiction.An enjoyable summer flick.
__label__8 For some strange reason, a theater in the middle of the cornfield in Indiana had a sneak preview of the Golden Compass, and being a fan of the books I decided to take advantage of it. I wasn't sure what I was getting into, as there seems to be a rather large glut of Harry Potter and Lord of the Rings wannabes crowding theaters now and in the near future. This version of the Golden Compass beautifully brings the books to life and was very pleasing to watch with rather nice visuals. The acting is quite good, especially from the young lead, and the animation makes one wonder what they can't do with computers these days. The only true complaint I have about this movie is that it is difficult to understand and follow if one is not familiar with the books. Some scenes at the beginning seems disconnected, but after the halfway point the story comes together. The Golden Compass series is rather dark in its nature, and I'm glad that the movie didn't pull any punches with the supernatural combat (which is awesome, specifically when the witches and bears do battle). Some liberty is taken with the story as expected, and many church references are renamed, but the quality of the story never suffers. I recommend the movie and I look forward to seeing the rest of the trilogy completed.
__label__8 I went in cynical about this, especially after the travesty that was the Narnia film, but i was quickly converted: it's great fun. A really entertaining and immersive film that intelligently builds a fantastical world that the uninitiated can marvel and thrill in. I have to say i haven't read the books so can't comment on a book to film comparison.On the cast, I don't know how it works in the book but the adults are barely in this. Nicole has the most significant work and Sam Elliott, while a late arrival, is a great presence once he's around. However Daniel Craig and Eva Green are barely in it and Christopher Lee has one blink-and-you'll miss him scene. That said the casting is excellent. Green is suitably witchy and Craig makes an impact in his one/two dialogue scenes early on which, along with a couple of wordless inserts of his storyline, put him enough into your mind to wonder about him. He feels set up for a more significant role in future instalments. Elliott is great. That sonorous voice sneaking out from underneath that bushy moustache feels exactly right for Lee Scorsby.Kidman is perfect. There's something indelibly creepy about her rigid manner that works for the elegant but sinister Mrs Coulter. Meanwhile Simon McBurney is magnificently slimy and loathsome as the magisterium main face. You know he's a villain from the moment he enters frame.Dakota Blue Richards is a great find as Lara. While the first two Potter films and Lion, the Witch & the Wardrobe were significantly hampered by the incredibly mannered, unrealistic, wooden acting of the young leads (most of the Potter cast got better, time will tell on Narnia) Richards is a winner from the outset. Precocious and feisty without seeming too forced she is generally believable whether is her rebellion or her loyalty. This is just as well as the film is really entirely on her shoulders. It will work or not for people based on whether you like her. She's in virtually every scene and has a lot of different emotions to get across as well as having to have significant interaction with CGI creations like her spirit animal Pan (the ubiquitous Freddie Highmore) and the polar bear played by Ian McKellen. She has a couple of slightly actorly moments but does incredibly well for a first timer under this kind of pressure.Of the voice-only cast McKellen is a perfect choice for the honourable polar bear while Highmore is either getting less annoying or it's just beneficial not being able to see him, as he is nicely understated as Pan. My only note on this casting would be once or twice I couldn't tell is Lyra or Pan was speaking in their interaction as in quiet moments Highmore and Richards' voices are remarkably similar!The effects are good but not great. I had worried they'd be as weak as Narnia and they aren't. The world is beautifully created and always feels real, whether Scorsby's flying ship or the blimp thing from the trailer, or stunning Arctic landscapes and big cities. The smaller creatures are also brilliantly rendered, Pan in particular. Some of the bigger creatures are less perfect. The polar bears have a cartoony unreal feel but in a fantasy setting with battle armour and stuff they work well enough. Certainly better than Aslan in Narnia. However the leopard creature with Daniel Craig doesn't look right at all.As for the film itself it really zips along quickly. The uninitiated (like me) may occasionally lose track of what's going on early on as strange terms and names are thrown back and forth but it soon settles down and makes sense. Rather than frustrating me that I might be missing key elements of what this world was about I felt happy going with it and was left thinking I'll watch it again when it's released just to be sure I didn't miss anything. It's a relief to see a fantasy film that brings it in at almost exactly two hours and has a cracking momentum, as opposed to the seemingly endless drag of Lord of the Rings, Harry Potter and Narnia. Don't get me wrong taking time can work. I really liked Fellowship of the Ring but the pace of the Potters really tests my patience. Golden Compass moves so fast before you know it it's over and it leaves you wanting more. Indeed at the end of this film I could say it had succeeded in doing something the Potter franchise has never done: it left me desperate to see the next one.However what really made me like this film more than those others is the tone and some of the things they do in it. There are moments in this, that i won't spoil for those like me who didn't know the plot, that really surprised me that they'd do in a family film.A big fight scene between polar bears and the end battle are suitably exciting and i found myself really invested. I cared about the characters. Whereas in Narnia they hadn't done enough to make you care about Aslan's fate (criminal given how effectively the book and the 80s BBC TV serial managed it) this really has you on the edge of your seat for the good guys.Overall I really liked Golden Compass and would give it an 8/10  compared to LOTR 10/10, 9/10, 7/10 for the series, Potter 5/10, 6/10, 8/10, 7/10, 7/10 for the series and Narnia 4/10. I will be watching this again when it comes out (something I never did for Potter or Narnia) and am looking forward to the next instalment. I hope Daniel Craig and Eva Green get bigger roles in the next film, but all round a great start to a potential franchise that I had middling hopes for.
__label__8 I am about 2 thirds of the way through the book when I decided to go to the limited engagement sneak preview of The Golden Compass. I feel that the film exceeded my expectations regardless of the structure change made by the film adaptation.The story was changed moderately, but not too much to take away from the mood of the book, and was in no way detrimental to the flow of the story. Otherwise, this movie was a roller-coaster ride from beginning to end! The effects exceeded my expectations. The flow of the daemons in the film was almost completely convincing, however there were times when the speech of the animals had that typical "computer animated falseness" that you see in the cg cartoons. Other than some minor CG blemishes, the realism is some of the most convincing I have seen! The polar bear is completely lifelike and the animal morphing I felt was simply spectacular.The flow of the film is very fast, which is a negative and a positive. While it really leaves us guessing or feeling unfulfilled in some of the crucial story elements, it also sets the pace for an exhilarating fast-paced adventure story that keeps you on the edge! The broad range of characters prevents the film from truly developing the characters that we really WANT to know. Since the book is a 3 part series, hopefully these characters will develop further in the next 2 films.I must say that there were several parts in this film that surprised me, considering this is marketed as a family film. This is a dark film. This could frighten some small kids. I feel this film definitely belongs in the pg-13 rating, and might even be a bit much for a 13 year old for the more sheltering type parents. Not only can it be conceived as very violent, there are some very adult themes that could be considered questionable.Overall, this is a film I would like to see again, and I am DYING to see the next film in the series. I walked out of this film excited, satisfied and wanting more. Might want to leave the young ones at home, but you won't regretting fighting for front row seats on a Friday night for this flick.
__label__8 It was the most powerful connection, I think, between a structure and a city and a fictional character that the 20th century had ever seen Of all the "King Kong" films that exist, Peter Jackson's new Kong is, without any doubt, the best The film won 3 Oscars, for sound editing, sound mixing, and visual effects It is set in 1933 where America was facing economic troubles unlike any seen before Jackson wanted 1933 New York to be very, very authentic He recreates a chaotic, crazy, busy city bustling and vibrant The streets were absolutely jam packed with cars, trams, buses, crowded with hawkers and thousands of people  The Empire State Building had just been built Jackson goes in the heart of New York and describes the Depression by showing private security forces raiding buildings; mass evictions of people who simply could not pay their rent; people winding up as squatters; and long line of people waiting to be fedHe gives a little hint about the Prohibition: police busting up an illegal still; Carl Delham getting a box of whiskey to take upon his trip and it's labeled "Lemonade." And oddly enough, he presents the end of Prohibition, when we see some liquor advertising at the climax of the movie that wasn't there at the beginning Jackson also introduces vaudeville... Vaudeville was a variety show, a string of acts put together to form a complete bill of entertainment Ann Darrow (Naomi Watts) was one of vaudeville good-looking actress who loses her job due to the lack of money Skull Island was another very important location for Jackson The amount of imagination and creativity that went into the ideas behind it is quite amazing The zoology, the flora and fauna, the cultural history of that impossible island is thrilling It was, indeed, a huge work to rebuild a hellish place of inexhaustible mysteries We are talking about small group of desperate souls eking out the barest existence possible Natives who have come to worship a giant gorillanamed "Kong" by them as some sort of god, practicing human sacrifice to appease his anger We are also talking about a lush jungle and tropical rain forest with giant reptiles with very large feet to cope with the uneven and broken terrain of the island We are talking not only about dinosaurs but also beasts just as terrible, or even worse We're talking about a natural predator trap full of rotting carcasses and scavenger creatures We are also talking about giant, parasitic, warm-like creatures which are much more than active predators and scavengers We are talking about perils resided not only in the depths of the island but in the skies as well, where terrifying flying creatures ruled"King Kong" delivers a fantasy-adventure piece, with its balance of peril and romance in much the same way "Titanic" did The romance part is not where one would expect it, but involves a beast with a beautiful and fragile creature who experience a tender if unexplained bond And this union is the finest moment of the film Ann looks into the ape's eyes and sees something impressionable there And the audience notices it too Jackson has done something emotional here In addition to the ape's beastly character, Kong gazes at Ann and shows true, endearing traits We are struck by his protective nature as we can understand the desires of each to protect the other Ann can't escape this fateful meeting that changes everything It's as if her whole life has been a prelude to this momentJackson's "King Kong" is a grandiose thrilling adventure, sufficiently magical and colorful whether it's reverently watching a sunset, or doing some ice-skating 
__label__8 Superhero fatigue is a problem that many people think is starting to settle in. Fantastic Four was an abysmal film and it made less than Spy Kids 3D: Game Over. Batman V Superman: Dawn of Justice received terrible reviews and had one of the biggest Friday to Sunday drops. Are people sick of these films? Well, not if you're in the Marvel family it seems. For one thing, Marvel actually takes pride and careful attention to detail with their films, both the previously mentioned titles are rush jobs for specific reasons. Civil War is proof that the good guy vs good guy aspect of superhero films can be done right.The world wants to hold the Avengers accountable for all the death and destruction they've caused over the years, so the United Nations put together the Sokovia Accords, which means the Avengers would work for them. Tony Stark supports this. Steve Rogers does not. Things get more complicated when Bucky turns up again and is the prime suspect in a bombing that kills dozens of people. With two prominent members of the Avengers on opposing sides of the issue, will the team ever be the same again?Civil War has a lot going for it. Stellar cast, great characters, top-notch special effects, excellent action sequences, comedic relief and...well the list goes on. The Russo brothers have delivered a slick action film that makes me comfortable with the fact that they seem to be at the helm of the Marvel franchise now. When The Avengers was first announced, I thought it was going to be dreadful, then they said these guy named Joss Whedon was going to be directing it and my expectations instantly changed. Whedon delivered a great superhero film that set up the rest of the films to come. The Russo brothers now have the task of juggling all these characters and they do an admirable job.Each character has their shining moments, but the core of the story is Stark vs Rogers. So while it's fun to have Rudd come in and have a few laughs, I don't think anyone is expecting huge things from his character. Same with Spider-Man, who is forced in here to set up his future films within this weird shared universe with Sony. Those are not complaints, they both work wonderfully in the film. If I were to find a complaint it would be in the thought process of the villain, Zemo. His plan is so painstakingly convoluted that I wonder how it even worked at all. Too many things need to fall in place for him to get what he wants and it distracts from the emotional power of the climax. The actors and the history with the characters manage to save it a bit and do raise the stakes, but I had my problems nonetheless.The grand spectacle at the airport between these characters was indeed a highlight. When you have characters like Vision and Scarlet Witch, who are so powerful they could end the fight instantly, it's a good idea to have them simply do damage control. I wondered how they would handle these two, they did a decent job of it. After this film, I can only hope that Infinity Wars goes this route and gives each Avenger a worthy foe to fight and not a hoard of mindless foot soldiers, which is exactly what the previous two Avengers films did. Fans of the series will be pleased, the action is great (a bit shaky at first, but they let it breath later on) and some great introductions of new characters that will bring a fresh perspective to the franchise. Black Panther for one, steals a lot of the scenes he is in. Bold move to have such a big character "show up" in the film without a solo movie to set him up, but it works here. The cast is diversifying as more and more characters come into these films and I'm glad to see it. Tony Stark is great, RDJ does a great job with him, but we've seen the guy have a big role in these films 6 times now. I get that Marvel is scared to let some of these characters go because they are so integral to everything, but I honestly believe something along these lines needs to happen to bring more emotional depth to the franchise. For a studio willing to take chances are projects like Guardians of the Galaxy, they need to take a chance on this aspect as well.
__label__8 Checkmate, haters. And sorry, it's just not your year. I have seen this movie, but I won't mention a single spoiler here. (If you guys want proof, you can PM me and I'll tell you how the movie ends and the after credits). The reason I'm really writing this review is that I KNOW THERE WILL BE BIASED PEOPLE HERE WHO'LL WRITE THAT BVS IS BETTER and this is trash, etc, etc. Well, just see this movie and judge for yourself. Speaking briefly of the movie, it is an emotional roller coaster with an absolutely beautiful end. Spidey had a satisfying screen time. As for the acting, by the time the movie ended, I was a happy man. Russov's are handling Infinity War, and after watching this movie, how they did justice to characters, I'll not worry. A movie we wanted as well as deserve.
__label__8 Heaven help me! I liked this movie, now I am going to be one of the few who did. As you can see from the other reviews a lot of people didn't like this movie, so why did I? 1. I came in with low expectations - I was expecting something horrible, boring, long and pointless, but despite myself I liked it, I laughed at the jokes, I connected with the actors (yes, Rihanna too), I was excited by the action and while clichés the plot held my interest 2. The actors did a good job with what they were given - Taylor Kitsch did a good job, Rihanna wasn't that bad, I dare say good, in her role. She was there, she didn't try to chew the scenery, she did her job as an actor/secondary character and it didn't bother me. I give her kudos3. lost in translation? - you try to make a game into a movie and you want to put parts of them game in it? Not easy, a little cheesy? Of course, but fun? Yes, fun, enjoyable, and in the end it was a part of the story that wasn't as forced as it could have been. So in conclusion, "Battleship" is a fun, corny, typical summer movie that I like but as you see a lot of people didn't. I think it is a guilty pleasure, something to be enjoyed by the few but annoyed by the rest. In the end I can only suggest this - go in with low expectations, expect a little over the top patriotism like in "Act of Valor" ( but not so heavy), and don't think about it. The movie is not without its flaws or questionable logic, but as it was said so well in another movie - "I suggest you don't think about it and just enjoy the ride"
__label__8 I based my initial opinion on the IMDb score and from the odd critic review when this was released. I watched this last night and was pleasantly surprised. its a lot better then I expected. I wont go into detail about the plot etc as its in the summary. the only actors I knew were Liam Neeson and Rhianna. Rhianna was better then most other singers that attempt acting. I think to put this in perspective I will tell you some of my favourite films as I feel if you also like these you will like battleship: transformers, skyline, matrix, avatar, lethal weapon, die-hard, van damme films, terminator 2. (I couldn't list them all. :-) ) ignore the fact the enemy look like transformer. I think the makers have done well turning a very old, guesswork boardgame into a pretty decent movie.
__label__8 There may be some inadvertent spoilers in this review, so beware! I went to see this movie with my girlfriend expecting an action movie with (based on the previews) really good special effects. After the first 5mins of the movie, it became apparent that Battleship was going to mix in some comedy as well. Both my girlfriend and I were both laughing a lot at the beginning of the movie, and it loosened our original perception of the movie. Now, we were just there to have a good time.For the most part, I was impressed. A good amount of the negative reviews I have read seem to not even be about this movie. I read one that literally stated, "Why did we have to slaughter these aliens that were just trying to get home?" They were obviously not watching the same movie. These aliens were trying to use our satellites to bring more ships to earth to take over the planet! They were piggy-backing on our technology because their communications ship crashed at the beginning. They weren't some well to do aliens who accidentally crashed and were trying to get home! This was an invasion! Another review said there were too many side stories... There were literally two. The main story arc deals with the main character fighting the aliens, and then his girlfriend is helping an army vet who lost his legs and they get into some trouble. That's pretty much it.The one big problem I had was the super cheesy part towards the end when all of the old veterans working on the Mighty Mo are posing all over the ship and Hopper gives them the mini speech about asking them to do more for their country. Plus, the idea of running a WWII era battleship with about 10 Navy Sailors and 10 60+ year old vets is a little... unbelievable. I'm not 100% on this, but the standard crew for a Missouri type battleship is over 2000. That was just way too corny for my taste, but it didn't take away too much from the over all movie.All in all, it was a lot of fun. The movie had great special effects, the interplay between the actors was amusing, and at times, just plain funny. The story was okay, there are a few things that were kind of left hanging, but this isn't supposed to be some artsy, independent film. I disagree with the reviewer who says that "It's an action movie" isn't a good excuse. I say it is. If you want moving dialog, Oscar worthy acting, and a swath of top name actors... This probably isn't the movie for you. If you just want to have a good time, have some laughs, see some great special effects and walk away from a movie with a smile on your face, go see this movie.
__label__8 Twenty years ago, people decided to play with evolution and resurrected long-extinct species. The amusement park, where the main attraction was dinosaurs, was to be a hit, but became famous for its tragic deaths. After a while people decided to give a lucrative idea a second chance, and here appeared the "World of the Jurassic period", offering visitors an unforgettable family vacation. But how much safer is it than its predecessor?Return to the big screens of great and toothy was just a matter of time. The story was too good to leave her alone. Inspired by a new life entrusted to director Colin Trevorow, who himself is a big fan of dinosaurs. He decided to show how he could bring the insatiable and out-of-control desire of humanity to be constantly entertained. In pursuit of money and new impressions, they bring out a new species, never before stepped on our planet. What can go wrong?The characters of the film, especially as for those who work in such a dangerous amusement park, where accidents happen all the time, are mostly too careless and narrow-minded. The owner of the island does not know at all what is being deduced in his laboratories, the security system operates only when the animals behave decently, one wants to write down as a matter of fact the wild raptors to serve in the army, and children can easily escape and during an alarm to stay alone on the field among dinosaurs, because the employees of the attraction are too busy saving their skins and incompetent to the limit. And what to do, when a huge dangerous predator of a new breed escapes, nobody knows at all.Well, that on the island works a certain Owen, who almost only understands that dinosaurs are living creatures, not toys. Chris Pratt's play here is pretty plausible, especially its interaction with the raptors. In the light of rumors that he might become the new Indiana Jones, it was nice to see him in a similar image, which he is very much following. The Pratt company is Bryce Dallas Howard, for whom this is the next vivid role after the "Servants". She has her own moments and potential, but it feels like the writers specifically held her back so that she did not become equal with him, preferring to keep her heroine in the shadow of Owen. By the way, the only actor from the original was BD Wong, who again embodied Dr. Henry Wu."The world of the Jurassic period" is clearly aware that it is simultaneously the continuation of the original, and the restart of history, which should breathe new life into the franchise. To the very original, creators reacted almost with sacred trembling, references to "Park" are found throughout the entire film. There is even a character-geek performed by Jake Johnson, who seems to be the embodiment of the fandom.Steven Spielberg, of course, put his hand to this continuation of his prehistoric brainchild, but only as an executive producer. Together with Trevorow and the huge team behind the creation of this blockbuster, we are going to an island where many would like to visit, despite the deadly danger in its cages.The dinosaurs themselves on the screen impress with their realism. When raptors appear, it's like seeing old and almost kind friends. With them, there are a lot of great moments, in particular their communication with Owen. Their joint pursuit, depicted on the poster for the film, is one of the most exciting moments of the franchise. But the most impressive episode is the final battle of dinosaurs. I was delighted with who the writers were instructed to save everyone from the new predator. The original is always steeper than any remake.Continuing 2 hours, this adventure will not let you get bored and will please the dinosaur lovers, who opened their mouths with surprise and delight at viewing the "Park". The plot of "Peace" is based on the idea that formed the basis of the original: people played in the gods. Heroes again create what they can not control, and then pay for it. It would seem that it is time for mankind to learn from its mistakes, but, judging by the history, we often do them again and again. And the creation of dinosaurs is far from the most serious of them.Crossing the types of the most dangerous dinosaurs, it is worth to be prepared for the fact that family rest on such an island will turn into a chase for survival.
__label__8 I am a huge fan of the Jurassic Park franchise, it's my favorite franchise, my life revolves around it and dinosaurs. I was very nervous for Jurassic World, because it had been so so long since we've seen them back on Isla Nublar (22 years to be exact). This made me go into the film as a mainstream film fan, so I could really tell if this was a good film or not, without being bias. I was amazed by how much this film makes you feel like a kid again, it has the exact amount of nostalgia to please the fans of the franchise and enough new material to appeal to a younger audience who maybe haven't seen the first three films.First of all, the cast which this film possess is used to great effect, with the most notable being Chris Pratt, his character Owen Grady is the perfect blend of Alan Grant and Ian Malcolm, making him likable and very quirky in how he behaves around his Velociraptors and people in general. Bryce Dallas Howard's character breaks the conventions of a female character in a film of this genre, she takes control of situations and you feel that she isn't a girl to run away from danger...apart from running away from the Indominous Rex, which I don't blame anyone for doing so. The supporting characters in the film also help it to come alive and make you think this is a real park with real lives at risk, especially Vincent D'Onfario in his role, he plays it magnificently and you can feel his tension yourself and finally Nick Robinson and Ty Simpkins as the kids in peril aren't as annoying as Kelly in the lost world, so that's an improvement to take note for.When the first trailer for Jurassic World was released, way back at the end of November 2014, people were starting to get very worried about the effects in this film and how they will improve from the first film, the same with the use of animatronics in this film. Well my friends and fellow fans, the CGI in this film are brilliant to look at, even though some scenes you can tell it is from a computer scene, the rest you couldn't tell the difference, they used the animatronics in scenes where they were necessary which has a lot of sentimental value for the film which was a nice touch. Most people thought in this film the Tyrannosaurus would play a minor role like it did in Jurassic Park 3, but the way they utilize the old girl is brilliant, she is amazing to look at and she even has the scars form the fight with the raptors from the first film, you cannot make the T-Rex have a small role in this film, especially when she's the poster girl for this magnificent franchise. It will be hard to make Jurassic World 2 better than this one, but here is to hoping!
__label__8 As a lifelong James Bond enthusiast who has been extremely disappointed with the franchise's latest efforts (with the exception of Casino Royale), I was extremely pleased with this film. It strayed away from the storyline of the previous two films and I couldn't have been happier after the mediocrity of Quantum of Solace. This film has all the constituents from the Bond films that have preceded it. Big explosions, ridiculous stunts that not a single person in the history of humanity can survive, and let's not forget to mention the beautiful women that would make both genders stop and stare. So what does Skyfall have that the other Bond films don't? For the first time, we get a glimpse into our mysterious hero's dark past. Where he came from and what made him the person he is today. Although I've always been the one to say that Sean Connery is the greatest Bond ever, I can now confess that Daniel Craig now holds that honor. Sean plays the comedic, smooth, and witty Bond to perfection while Daniel plays the mysterious, dark, and lonesome secret agent flawlessly. I will always choose a darker portrayal over a comedic one because it takes a certain mindset to depict someone of that nature. One of my favorite scenes is where Bond is sitting in a bar drinking alone. I don't care who you are or what your background is, if you are drinking by yourself in a bar, then you have issues that are haunting you. Whether you can admit it or not, you are in a dark place and that is exactly where this Daniel Craig portrayed Bond is. And I love it.Aside from Daniel Craig, you have a cast that includes some of the finest actors that have ever graced the big screen. Javier Bardem plays a blood thirsty ex-MI6 agent out for revenge. His performance is equally as creepy and twisted as his portrayal of Anton Chigurh in "No Country for Old Men" and it is an Oscar worthy performance in my opinion. Judi Dench reprises her role as M and Ralph Fiennes and Albert Finney give important and memorable roles which I won't go further into detail about. Also two prominent figures from James bond history find their way back into the story line. Sam Mendes shows why he was the right choice to direct a film of this magnitude and along with the contribution of Oscar Nominee John Logan, Neal Purvis and Robert Wade come up with a memorable narrative after the disappointment of their last collaborating effort, Quantum of Solace. I look forward to what the future has in store for everyone's favorite spy. If Skyfall is a sign of things to come, then I will remain incredibly optimistic about the future.
__label__8 23rd flick out of the divine closet and it took one whole day to sink in; there is a great attempt to change the game.....no flashing of gadgetry, no top of line sophistication......there is a deliberate attempt to go back to basics and start the resurrection Film's holding power is good, it's intense in execution but story-line never reaches that zenith it was expected to....and it is predictable too in some sense Daniel Craig is great as Bond, he has played a mortal Bond beautifully....Bond is no longer perfection now, he has his glitches but he rides on, mental strength of an Agent Bond girl could have been better but Berenice is reasonable Javier as Silva has played the villain - he will go down as a benchmark 'M'- Judi Dench dies in the climax and that is the emotional punch this flick contains- an era ends but Bond plays on... A Bond movie with a 1982 touch of a mortal movie---it's a cocktail and it may work :) Casting song with it's graphics is ausum- Adele has put a real soul in it....you can watch the movie only for that All in all, in spite of it's cons...this movie will go down as something...people can hate it, people can go crazy over it, people can say it's garbage, people can absolutely love it: it depends on their relationship and understanding of Bond Don't watch it for being greatest Bond movie ever, don't watch it for being a competitor to Dark Knight; watch it for being Skyfall
__label__8 A James Bond film made for the modern era, you'd be hard pressed to find any other film series able to stand the test of time and still feel relevant. When it looks like it's lagging behind the competition of the other spy action thrillers, the makers have taken note and re-invented the mould, making it more real and exciting.To me, Bond had too much of a rigid formula, the cars, the chases, the girls, the gadgets, the megalomaniac villain's and the spectacular set pieces/stunts. After a while though, the older films seem to suffer from a sense of deja vu. It's a case of been there, done that. The structure of the films have become stale and repetitive. Same plot about a group of criminals/organisation hell bent on world domination/destruction, with a beautiful bond girl in tow, Bond and or Bond girl gets capture, ridiculous car chase or stunts with a million of cheesy one liners. Frankly, I had pretty much given up on the Bond films. They have become predictable and tedious with only the change of location to give the film any sort of distinction.The plot of Skyfall is unlike previous Bond films, starts with the routine chase resulting in Bond being shot and wounded, believed to be dead by MI6. When an attack on MI6 headquarters manifest through a cyber attack and a bombing at the headquarters, Bond returns to uncover who is behind the assault. Struggling from his gun shot wound, Bond has to prove his fitness mentally and physically through some rigorous tests. Sent back into action without being fully fit, Bond embarks on the mission to expose the mastermind. What Bond discovers is a villain who happens to be ex-agent who has a vendetta against M and will stop at nothing to kill her.First thing you'll notice is the lack of gadgets and the usually bond girl (there is one of sorts but you'll understand when you watch it). Also with a villain who is suave yet as equally menacing as Hannibal Lector, we have a loose cannon who isn't after the world but revenge. It's spy vs spy and the story is more of a evolution of the characters that inhabit the world of Bond. Nods to older Bond films crop up from dialogue, props and even the classic Austin Martin car makes an appearance. It's a homage as well as a resurrection of well known characters.What we are given here is a Bond with more layers to him and more emotions. Daniel Craig has moulded a Bond who is more relateable. Signs of physical and emotional weakness shows us a Bond who is no longer a super spy with little or no vulnerability. Other characters are given more screen time and provide an emotion gravitas (We are also introduced to Q, a young model who is still wet behind the ears).In the hands of Sam Mendes and Director of photography Roger Deakins, there has never been a more beautiful shot Bond film. During Bond's fight with a criminal minion we see only their silhouettes, but the eye is drawn to the beauty of the neon Shanghai backdrop. The reserve can be said for the grime, dour and rainy streets of London which captures our the United Kingdom perfectly.It's a satisfying and enjoyable film, with plenty of action and a surprising emotional core to the narrative. A great development in characters with seeds being sown to allow for a more relateable and mature story telling and for future characters to come to the fore. Skyfall has made me fall in love with Bond films again so here's hoping there's no more rigid formula and routine mundane narratives of past.
__label__8 *May contain spoilers*This is clearly the best James Bond film of the decade. Casino Royale was entertaining and kept me interested through most of the film. Quantum of Solace fell flat in many areas. And now Skyfall revitalizes the James Bond franchise. The movie begins like the previous movies; with James Bond(played by Daniel Craig) chasing a target through the streets of a foreign country. We see some of the same action sequences. I don't know how many times people can see the good guy narrowly escape death, but it never seems to get old. Well, not to directors anyway. Back to the movie, there is another agent with him and when the time comes she is ordered by M to take the shot that seemingly kills Bond. No surprise he isn't dead and there is no attempt to tell how he faked this death. While he is enjoying death he sees on the news that M16 was attacked and he makes a trip back to London, to rejoin his former agency. This is where the plot takes off.Much like Christopher Nolan's Batman trilogy, what I liked most about this particular Bond film is its attempt to give us a look into Bonds origin and life before he became 007. You also have to see Bond rise from retirement, old age and injuries, like we see Bruce Wayne do in The Dark Knight Rises. If you haven't seen the film already then get ready for intense action scenes,a bleach blond evil-genius, and an explosive ending. This movie really delivers and Bond lovers will fall head over heels for the newest installment to the legendary Bond franchise.
__label__8 It only happens very rarely that a sequel surpasses the original (Terminator 2, Star Wars Episode V - The Empire Strikes Back) and after the relative disappointment that was the original my expectations for the second film in the series had decreased. When I finally did sit down in the cinema to see this film I was a bit anxious. But my anxiety was quickly put to rest because Spider-Man 2 took the premises from the first film and improved upon them all. The first Spider-Man film a well meaning picture but quite as good as it could have been the second film is a good film for both hardcore fans like myself and the broader audience.First off, the acting in the second film has improved tremendously. Tobey Maguire feels more right in the second film. I found him quite shallow in the first film but in the second one he seems to have developed more depth. More nuances have found their way into his acting in the second film making the character more believable and less of a square. Kirsten Dunst is never a good actress but I found her a little less annoying in this film than in the first and therefore I felt I could tolerate her presence. James Franco is decent but still has a problem with portraying nuances which basically means that in order for his performance to work he has exaggerate every emotion his character feels. As it is with most superhero movies the villain is the most interesting character and Sam Raimi couldn't have picked a better actor than Alfred Molina to play Otto Octavius aka Doc Ock. I'm a big fan of Willem Dafoe but I didn't like his performance in the first Spider-Man film very much and therefore I was delighted when Alfred Molina turned out to be a far better villain than Willem was. His performance was both menacing and nuanced and even though the character isn't always directly in control of his actions (making him somewhat misinterpreted) Molina's performance makes the character highly credible and undoubtedly the most interesting character in the film.The effects have improved which is logical considering that it has been 2 years since the first film hit the cinemas. Also I found that Doc Ock was much better suited for flashy moves and cool fights than Green Goblin ever was so in that aspect the film is far superior to the first film as well. Especially the train fight will, I think, go into history as one of the best hero/villain showdowns in history if not the best. The computer effects have become slightly more subtle making the film seem more polished. There were still a few unfortunate scenes were the CGI was pretty obvious but overall the effects have improved dramatically and received a well earned Oscar.The musical score continues in the same epic fashion from the first and Danny Elfman does an exceptional job as usual. The score is both thrilling and epic but it is also subtle when it has to be and that aspect of the score works wonderfully as well. Elfman has some experience in super hero scoring (having done both Batman and Hulk aside from Spider-Man) and it shows as the score is very appropriate and fitting. Two thumbs up on the music.In terms of story telling the second film is also far better than the first. I found the first film to be very unoriginal in terms of its story. Anyone who has just an ounce of knowledge into the myth of Spider-Man knows the story beforehand and thus the film becomes very predictable and boring quite frankly. The second film did not have this problem. It was a breath of fresh air. The story seems to flow more from the heart this time around. Raimi proved in the first film that he could take a situation from the comics and translate it reasonably to the screen. In the second film he proves that he can make a highly original story as well and make it entertaining. It should also be added that Spider-Man 2 has a lot more of the humor like the kind that appears in the comics. J.K. Simmons who was one of the elements in the first film returns in his role and he is absolutely hilarious. He truly embodies the spirit of J. Jonah Jameson. There is also a very funny elevator scene which should be mentioned.Some people complained that Raimi has turned mainstream with the Spider-Man films. That is a load of rubbish and Raimi proves it by adding some elements from his cult films, the Evil Dead series. He even lets Bruce Campbell tell Spider-Man off as if to symbolize that he hasn't forgotten where he came from.All in all Spider-Man 2 surpasses the first film in the franchise in almost every way imaginable Spider-Man 2 is twice as engaging, entertaining and heartfelt than the first film in the series.9/10
__label__8 Well I saw the first and Thought .. OK, nice movie, but nothing special. So I wasn't looking much forward to the second one. Boy was I wrong.. The second one has it all... And I mean all. Suspense, romance, action and some quite nice Effects. Tobey Maguire is performing well, and Kirsten Dunst... wauw.... she is breathtaking...And only 22, so we can only hope to see more of her the coming years. Last but not least, Alfred Molina, who is the bad guy. He is very convincing and very very nasty. The computer-effects used are better than I have ever seen. Now you get the feeling of flying. I recommend all to see this movie, yes girls too. Remember.. movies are best in the cinema!
__label__8 A cut above the typical comic book movie, S-M 1 did what this type of movie is supposed to do: introduce the main characters, have 'em fight a Super Bad Guy, and then have it all end happily ever after, for the most part. In other words, for the first movie in a supposed franchise, you have to allow time for exposition of the protagonist's background, even if millions already know him from another medium.With S-M 2, though, such an obligation isn't necessary. We've met Spidey, MJ, Aunt May, et al., and we're ready to jump into a new story. So while the first one explains why Spidey is, the second movie devotes more time to fighting the Bad Guy du Jour, Doctor Octopus.Peter Parker (Tobey Maguire) still pines for MJ (Kirsten Dunst), from whom he steers clear despite his undying affection for her. It's for her own good, he tells himself. If we're together, my enemies will top at nothing to get at me through her, and I can't put her in that position. And so, in typical superhero fashion, he broods and broods and broods. The relentless push-and-pull between his love for MJ and his devotion to using his powers for good is a constant theme in the Spider-Man universe, and in the movies it either smolders in the background or charges with a raging fury to the forefront. Peter is given the impossible choice - true love or good deeds - and it's a choice to which, at its core, everyday people can relate; we all have exceedingly difficult choices to make throughout our lives.And in this especially, the movies succeed. Peter Parker is supposed to be an average teen - well, except for those powers he has. He's not morally superior. He's not smarter. He's just a poor schlub who accidentally has these super powers, and he doesn't quite know how to deal with them. On a smaller scale, a comparison can be made to a supremely talented collegiate football player who's just made it to the pros. He has otherworldly talents. He has money, fame, fortune. And can he handle it? About as well as Peter can.Anyway, the big villain here is the aforementioned Doc Ock (Alfred Molina), yet another in a long line of Good Scientists Gone Wrong. You may recall that the Green Goblin from the first S-M movie was also of this line. This Doc has found a way to manipulate metallic tentacles with his mind. (It helps that the tentacles are physically attached to him.) Something goes wrong, he goes mad, and next thing you know it, he's gonna take over the world. Give these boys a Happy Meal, and they'd still want two prizes.Along with the inevitable Spidey-Doc Ock battles, Peter Parker's best friend Harry (James Franco) is still quite resentful as Spidey's killing of his father in the first movie. He doesn't know Peter is Spider-Man, but he knows only Peter is able to take photographs of him. So the second thematic struggle is within Harry - does he resent his friend for knowing the murderer (in his eyes) of his father? All of the cast returns from the first movie (well, all that survived the first movie), and they all do a collective good job. Maguire is a perfect choice for the lead; he's unassuming, can't really emote, is stoic, and even a little bit wimpy. All are qualities that plague the characters of both Spider-Man and Peter Parker.
__label__8 The first time I saw this movie I really didn't like it, I had just come off the high of "The Avengers" and let me make it clear, this one isn't as good. That said it is significantly better than Iron Man 2 and that's because the story is deeper and direct. There's a lot less focus on explosions and fancy effects (although there is plenty of that) and more on dialogue and character development.One thing I like about this movie is that you get to learn more about Tony Stark, as much as I loved his arrogance in IM1, 2 at the end of Avengers he was humbled and that continues in this one. On the one hand I love the suits and the fancy technology but it's Robert Downey's sarcasm and wit that make him so great for this franchise.Yes there is a big plot twist but it by no means ruins the movie and while I was not a fan of the ending, you can see where things are going towards Avengers 2.It may not be for you, my only advice is to make sure you watch it again. I was angry the first time I did and thought the movie was a joke, each additional time I've watched it I take something more from it and enjoy it a little more.
__label__8 Ever since the release of the first installment back in 2008 I've been a big fan of the series, I caught the first flick on the big screen 3 times and it's sequel twice, so my anticipation was high. I'd intentionally avoided most of the trailer, TV spots and early reviews as I tend to find too much exposure to pre-release hype diminishes the actual viewing experience, but I had a general idea of the direction. I'm also a big fan of director Shane Black and specifically Kiss Kiss Bang Bang, an action/comedy/buddy flick, set at Christmas featuring Robert Downey Jr, so I also had a general idea of what to expect in terms of artistic tone and I was not disappointed with what I saw. Easily the best Iron Man movie so far, the movie finds itself in an unusual position, not only is it the direct sequel to Iron Man 2 it also follows the events of The Avengers which plays a big role in the character development of Tony, who finds himself suffering from severe panic attacks which is understandable for a guy who just flew a nuclear weapon in a giant worm hole in the sky above New York opened by an army of evil intergalactic space aliens. So how do you create an appropriate threat for the man of Iron now that he's fought Avengers level threats? The answer is to cripple Tony's confidence, take him back to basics, essentially fighting himself back out of the proverbial cave with a bunch of scraps. What Shane Black has achieved is the funniest Iron Man movie that also features stunning action sequences, something that was somewhat lacking in the previous installments. As always the dialogue is witty and expertly delivered by Downey, but what really had me laughing out loud was a particularly inventive sequence featuring a not quite complete Iron Man suit.The big third act finally has been pretty much spoiled by every single trailer they put out but it still manages to deliver in terms of sheer 'ZOMG' awesomeness. I loved the relationship between Tony and the little boy and was genuinely touched by the heart warming ending. I've seen a few reactions by people wondering how Tony will feature in future installments specifically Avengers 2 now that he has removed his chest piece and destroyed all his suits, I would point out that it the chest piece isn't required to use an Iron Man suit, War Machine uses one, Iron Monger used one in IM1, Whiplash used a suit in IM2, Pepper Potts uses the suit briefly, so Tony will still be able to use an Iron Man suit when required. As to the destruction of his entire arsenal, He's Tony Stark, come on, of course he's gonna make more suits. He even says right at the end of the film, I am Iron Man. And essentially I always will be no matter what happens to me. And in case you had any doubt at all, the movie even spells it out for you in the end credits, Tony Stark will return. Speaking of end credits the stinger, the amount of people who stayed glued to their seats in anticipation of the now famous Marvel stingers was really a testament to their appeal. I really enjoyed this one, the relationship between Tony and Bruce was something I really enjoyed in The Avengers and I'm really glad they've decided to build upon that. Now just as few things I do have an issue with, The Ten Rings? As revealed in this movie The Madarin was nothing more than a tool used to manipulate the public, created by Aldrich Killan, that in itself I have no problem but it does raise one important question, what was going on in the first movie when the Ten Rings kidnapped Tony? Are we to now believe that Aldrich Killian was behind it all along? Or has Shane Black just created a pretty sizeable plot hole in the entire Iron Man series? That being said I really dug the movie and I'm super excited for the future of the Marvel cinematic Universe.
__label__8 I thought this movie was a lot of fun, and I may have enjoyed it even more than the first two. The two big criticisms I see people making about it are that the Mandarin wasn't the same as in the comics, and that Tony didn't use the armor much. I consider the Mandarin to be a boring villain in the first place. The comedy was worth not having an iconic super villain. As far as not using the armor enough, I did want to see more of Iron Man tearing stuff apart. But again, I liked what we got in place of it so much, it was an agreeable trade off. Seeing how resourceful Tony can be with none of his technology was just as fun, and the stuff with the kid was full of great humor. Guy Pearce's sleazy bad guy in a suit wasn't nearly as much fun as Justin Hammer from #2--I would have rather had him back. The after-credits scene legitimately had me worried--I want to imagine Tony and Banner are hanging out. I don't like the idea that they might not be getting along! Even all the other problems people point out about plot holes and character inconsistencies don't really diminish how much I enjoyed IM3. I thought the script was incredible and I was constantly surprised at how inventive it was. RD jr. created a character for the ages with his take on Tony, but with this installment, I now feel this character and this movie series may be among my personal favorites. This movie is just too smart to be a big summer action kids movie, but it had its cake and ate it too: well made and impossibly successful. Good for them. I want more.
__label__8 How will Marvel's universe ever be the same after "The Avengers"? There's bound to be a vocal percentage of viewers who walk out of "Iron Man 3" thinking, "why didn't he just call his superfriends in the end?" It's a good question, one that Drew Pearce and Shane Black's script doesn't ignore, but never satisfyingly answers. Yet that doesn't seem to matter. The bigger question that Marvel has addressed is whether it could effectively narrow the scope of its universe again after "The Avengers" blew it open—and the answer is yes.Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) hasn't been the same since his near-death experience in a intergalactic wormhole at the end of "The Avengers." In fact, the words "New York" have become a trigger for his newly discovered anxiety attacks. He has spent his funk by building an inordinate amount of Iron Man suits, and specifically a remotely operated suit that he can summon through a biological tracking system. When a terrorist named the Mandarin (Ben Kingsley) emerges, hacking U.S. airwaves to spread fear and causing thermal explosions, Tony calls him out on his cowardice, a move he immediately regrets.As the script continues to introduce all the players in this third iron-clad outing, from Guy Pearce as Aldrich Killian—a think tank manager Tony spurned 13 years ago—to Don Cheadle's Col. Rhodes who has a new gig as the stars-and-stripes-studded presidential bodyguard Iron Patriot, the film appears as a sloppy mess likely to meet the same fate as "Iron Man 2." Only when Tony begins to pursue the mystery of the terrorist bombings do all these seemingly disparate pieces begin to come together into what's actually a rather clever story.Story structure aside, the script does boast plenty of Stark quips in case you worried the directorial turnover from Jon Favreau to Shane Black would alter the tone of the franchise. Not even close. If anything, the "Kiss Kiss Bang Bang" director pushes the boundaries of political correctness with some of the dialogue, especially in the scenes in which Tony finds himself teamed up with a 12-year-old boy."Iron Man 3" digs deeper into the psychology of Tony Stark, at least more than you'd expect from a blockbuster. Rather than open with an action sequence to get the ball rolling, we get a flashback to when Stark met Pearce's Killian as well as a genetic engineer named Maya played by Rebecca Hall. Things don't really begin to pick up until Tony has his mansion blown into the ocean.Not unlike "Iron Man 2," the film's action is largely reserved for the grand finale. Still, the amount of special effects shots is probably tripled, and the action sequences when they do come were written to be as unique and memorable as possible, with a skydiving sequence taking the cake. "Iron Man 3" hits big whenever it makes the effort to do so, proving again how Marvel Studios holds a quality entertainment standard rivaled by few.The "Iron Man" films (and this is partly fault of the comic) lack truly excellent villains. This film sets up Tony Stark's greatest nemesis in the Mandarin, but complicates it in a way you'll never see coming considering how studios and writers have flocked toward villains in the mold of Heath Ledger's Joker from "The Dark Knight."The movie gambles in that way and in other ways not all audiences will recognize. Take the boy for example. If the film failed on the whole, it would forever be remembered as "the 'Iron Man' movie with Tony Stark and that kid." That's dangerous territory. If "Spider-Man 3" had worked, everyone wouldn't refer to it as "the one with emo Peter Parker."Nothing gambles more than the script, which spends a lot of time setting up the premise for what it hopes will be an effective payoff. So much of the film seems anecdotal until you see how the pieces fit. Even then, there's no guarantee the audiences will be compelled by the completed puzzle, but "Iron Man 3" goes bold enough to surprise in a good way.The humor definitely misfires at times and the sense of danger doesn't pervade the film from start to finish, but considering how must third installments have sputtered ("Spider-Man 3," "X-Men: The Last Stand"), it's testament to a number of quality components at work behind the scenes, not excluding "The Avengers," which clearly reenergized Iron Man as a solo character. Without it, no way "Iron Man 3" opens with nearly $175 million after the critical disappointment toward the second.Few actors have truly created and owned a character like Downey Jr. and Tony Stark. Without him, Iron Man is just a second-class superhero in Marvel's canon. He single-handedly launched Phase One of Marvel Studios' plan and gave audiences a multi-dimensional hero with both despicable and lovable qualities. If he powers down the suit after "The Avengers 2," it'll be the end of an era.~Steven CThanks for reading! Visit moviemusereviews.com for more
__label__8 I'm gonna be honest; I'm not a big fan of Marvel. I thought this was gonna be another action-devoured, hero-glorifying crap that Marvel usually does with many of their hero characters in movie sequels.However, when I found out Shane Black was directing this one, who by the way is a veteran filmmaker in the action genre (known for screen writing Lethal Weapon, Kiss Kiss Bang Bang, etc.), I decided to give this one a chance.I must say that I was SO not disappointed! This movie beginning to end was exciting and engaging, with great pacing and everything a decent superhero story needs to keep smart audiences interested. Allow me to elaborate: Without any real spoilers, in this story, the machine-industrial billionaire Tony Stark is constantly faced with anxiety and mental distress as the result of his relentless work and constant political/terrorism-based issues that pose a threat to him and his girl (who we all know by now is who he cherishes the most). You can see the great character development as the plot continues to unfold how his arrogance and childish attitude in the past has affected others. Now, those sins have come back to haunt him, and he must deal with more than just The Mandarin. Away from home, with a nearly shattered Iron Man suit, and no signs of his wife, Tony must struggle against his own fears, uncover the mistakes of his past, and redeem his actions in order to be at rest again.A lot of times, directors of sequels face the issue of either copying the same style from the previous installment or trying something new. People would complain either way, but hear me out, do NOT listen to all these haters. Personally, I LOVED this new style of Iron Man. I totally digged the intense atmosphere and the beautifully epic music score by Brian Tyler, who is always one of my all-time favorite soundtrack composers.Acting is more or less the same level from the previous two. Robert Downey Jr. nails his role as the infamous Tony Stark. Ben Kingsley made a very dark, menacing Mandarin. Even Guy Pearce does a great job, as I could not recognize him at first glance.Cinematography and CG animations are on point, though some may argue it gets weak sometimes when it comes to the bad guys. Being an amateur filmmaker and editor myself, I can only imagine how many hours it must have taken to render scene where all the Iron Men arrive (no, if you saw the trailer already, that wasn't a REAL spoiler).So why are people hating this movie? It's simply different. We live in a world where the type of entertain Hollywood markets is not the same as the substance the original comics or works of literature may illustrate. However, even among those who haven't read the comics, the top two complaints I hear are: 1. There's too much action and nothing really new about the story. 2. Iron Man is not wearing the Iron Man suit enough.Are you kidding? The amount of action for this ACTION film was rational, and it kept the pacing better than the previous installments, not leaving much time in between for audiences to breath (which I guess can be considered a good or bad thing). Sure, it's not completely original story-wise, but since when has any superhero movie aside from Nolan's Dark Knight demand for ingeniously creative depth? And why would you want to see Stark constantly rely on the suit!? That would make him like every other of the crap movies Marvel came out with - superheroes that are perfect and always rely on their powers/abilities to solve everything.There's even a moral theme to this movie on how even the smallest mistakes/wrongdoings can create the biggest impact on one's life. In fact, as a human race, we naturally "create our own monsters." The very first scene of this movie established this theme and it was well-played out in supporting the villain's intentions and background.Movies that give me the worst impressions on Marvel include Captain America, Spider Man, Fantastic Four, etc. In those movies, the hero(es) always seem so perfect and good at heart, being misunderstood and mistreated but eventually recognized thanks to their new superpowers. Hollywood has murdered that cliché concept. I'm sick of it.But thanks to this movie, Iron Man has shown that there's more to him than just being a hotshot billionaire who wears an powerful robot suit to battle. With a variety of creative action and intense scenes, he utilizes his mind, his integrity, and his struggles against internal anxiety. A man that makes mistakes, takes the pain he feels from the results of those mistakes and uses them to strengthen himself and defeat adversity. A character that shows vulnerability and relatable weaknesses in spite of their powers, how much wealth they possess, or how talented they are. A character that changes himself not to just "save the world" but to save the things in life that are truly important - love, happiness, people, moral wisdom, etc. THAT is what I call a true hero.Just avoid the haters and avoid having too much hype. As long as you don't go in with super high Oscar-winning expectations and treat it as a typical family movie, you will definitely enjoy it as a thrilling ride with a brilliant, yet simple plot. Till this day, Iron Man is still my favorite Marvel hero.
__label__8 It's time to say goodbye. No, Tony Stark will not get anywhere from us, Iron Man is still at the top of Olympus Marvel. But it will never be the same again, because the cycle of the name Robert Downey Jr. comes to the end. Enjoy the same ellipsis of a beautiful trilogy, worthy of his hero.The third film turned out to be minimal superhero, but as human as possible. To achieve such an effect was possible because of a change of man in the director's chair - the place of joker John Favreau was taken by Shane Black. The screenwriter of The Deadly Guns received an appointment clearly in an old friendship with Downey. It so happened that the iconic for both "The Kiss" (for Robert to a lesser extent, of course) makes itself felt in the story of the "Iron Man" - if the last two films were simply "not serious", then this time we can safely be called the funniest in the trilogy. In addition to abundant jokes, some plot twists from the duo's past collaborative work are also guessed.Robert Downey Jr. now spends much less time in a suit. After the events in New York ("The Avengers") he is overcome by panic: and suddenly something like this will happen again, suddenly Pepper will again be in danger. In a suit, fear goes, then he and Iron Man, but the battle with yourself has to lead literally with bare hands. The costume, in turn, does not disappear from the screen, it is multiplied either independently, or under the control of the skillful AI Jarvis, thereby preventing Robert's talent, the flow of which is always a little bit, but restrained by the suit. The screen time and Gwyneth Paltrow increased, for this incarnation of beloved Stark, this is actually also the last fight and this time it gives a light to the old one.
With enemies everything is much better than last time. First of all, the mysterious Mandarin. Sir Ben Kingsley and his character is SPOILER riding a spoiler, plus a spoiler and chases. It is not enough, but it surprises him fantastically, for it completely changes the preliminary opinion about the film and from fears that ZhCH3 turned into the fall of the Dark Knight, there is no trace. The second villain went to Guy Pearce. The Englishman goes deeper and deeper into the abyss of extremely negative roles, which, incidentally, is not bad, because the hostage of one role is definitely not about him.Flashed on the screen by tradition and Stan Lee, without which there would be no comic books about Tony Stark and there would not be anything else. A few months before the premiere of Iron Man 3, the master turned 90 years old.The funny pseudo-realism Iron Man 3 captivates. With the change of director, the film also changed, which pays more time to Tony Stark, and not to Iron Man. Who knows, Robert Downey Jr. may someday. will return to his main superhero role, but so far the film and he himself hint that it's time to move on. Finally, Marvel gives the audience a cocktail of humor, action and nostalgia, supplemented by a slice of the beloved actor and a piece of the universe after the credits.
__label__8 Tony Stark might be at his best with his gadgets, but ironically his movies are best when he is without them. 'Iron Man 3' is a perfect demonstration of that – for the first 40 mins, Stark is the same arrogant, cocksure person he was in the self-important 'Iron Man 2'; and then after crashing and burning in his damaged suit in the middle of a wintry expanse, Stark is forced to start over, and that rebirth brings back what made the first 'Iron Man' so infectiously entertaining in the first place.Indeed, you've been warned – don't expect 'Iron Man 3' to be firing from all cylinders right from the get-go as 'The Avengers' did; rather, the road to that payoff is slow and bumpy. This is a 'post-Avengers' Stark, traumatised by his near-death experience closing the Chitauri wormhole back in New York. At the expense of sleep and his relationship with the ever-lovely Pepper Potts (Gwyneth Paltrow), Stark throws himself into work – which to him means further refining his 'Iron Man' armour. In the meantime, he leaves the heavy lifting to Colonel Rhodes (Don Cheadle), commissioned by the President to fight terror in the War Machine suit (basically the 'Iron Man' fighting machine but in the patriotic colours of red, white and blue).Col Rhodes' latest target is a terrorist going by the monicker of 'The Mandarin', who has brought his war to home soil after targeting US installations abroad. Only when his former driver cum good friend, Happy Hogan (Jon Favreau), is fatally injured does Stark sit up and pay attention, and in an ill-advised and egotistical move, reveal his home address in an outright challenge to The Mandarin. That, as you would already know from the trailer, leaves his oceanside home decimated and Stark in a barely functioning suit in the snow-covered wilds of Tennessee.Up to this point, a lot of what is meant to pass as wisecracks is exchanged as dialogue among Stark, Potts and Hogan, but the smart- talking isn't particularly amusing or engaging and gets increasingly tiresome after a while. But as we said at the start, it is precisely when Stark is forced to start over that the movie starts getting into the groove. Abandoning the slick and sleek mechanical tricks and gimmicks, the middle act settles into a surprisingly old-school act in a small-town-USA where Stark had meant to visit to investigate a recent incident which he suspects is linked to The Mandarin.There, some of the sparkiest repartee unfolds between Stark and a young kid he meets, Harley (Ty Simpson), who will not only enable him to overcome his PTSD but also become an unlikely pre-pubescent sidekick. The rapport between Stark and Harley significantly enlivens the film, with the 'connection' (there is a special meaning to the quotation here) between them perhaps the most poignant relationship developed here. Thankfully, the delightfully warm and witty midsection only makes the film better from here onwards.Surpassing expectations of a straightforward good-versus-bad showdown, veteran action movie screenwriter Shane Black and his first-time feature film writer Drew Pearce engineer a couple of elegant twists, including an ingenious revelation on the true identity of The Mandarin. Not to worry, we're not in spoiler mode here, but suffice to say that it is probably the very reason why Academy Award-winning actor Ben Kingsley was enticed to the role. And with that surprise comes the action that you've been waiting for from this summer blockbuster.Black, who is making his sophomore feature film, offers up two eye- popping set pieces. The first sees a daring attack on Air Force One in mid-air, leaving 13 people in free-fall and a truly exhilarating sequence where Iron Man gets to play 'barrel of monkeys' with all of them and guide them to safety. The second is the elaborate and game- changing climax – not only for the fact that it is the first and only time in the whole movie that we see the Iron Legion in action, but also because it comes to a startling conclusion that re-establishes the dynamic between Stark and Potts. Both are even more astounding considering Black's last and first movie was a crime caper called 'Kiss Kiss Bang Bang' that never would have primed you into thinking he was capable of such spectacle.But one supposes that Robert Downey Jr must have seen that potential in Black to recommend him as the candidate to take over Favreau, the familiarity between actor and director paying off in how the former trusts the latter to take the character in a different direction. While he was vulnerable before, Stark did not have the same attachment as he does here with Potts or the same sense of introspection that is evident in his voice-over. In turn, Downey Jr. gives his best performance as Tony Stark/ Iron Man yet, with a newfound sense of frailty that develops convincingly into humility to match his heroics.Disagree if you must, but we always loved Stark more when he was less full of himself, and a refreshingly new aspect here is the buddy element that sees Stark pairing first with Harley and then with Col Rhodes. In particular, the finale sees a rousing partnership with the latter – both Downey Jr and Cheadle clearly enjoying trading quips and barbs at each other while saving the day. And given how the 'Iron Man' movies have been at their most rousing when Stark rebuilds himself, the last shot of Stark beginning a new phase in his life bodes well for the future of the franchise, especially if it is to continue its life outside of 'The Avengers'.
__label__8 The third instalment of the highly-successful Iron Man franchise goes off in a different direction to its predecessors. I'll assume that 'part 3' (not including the Avengers) won't be people's first helping of Iron Man lore and they'll probably have a shrewd idea of what to expect from the previous episodes.However, the film-makers have decided to go in a slightly different direction with this one. I can see their point. It may have felt a bit 'samey' to have yet another villain wearing a suit of armour to battle our sarcastic hero Tony Stark, so they decided to downplay the suits of armour for the better part of the movie. Instead they focused more on 'the man' himself, utilising his deductive powers, rather than just blasting baddies with his lasers.And, to be blunt, while some people loved it, others hated it. So if you're looking for yet another superhero movies with larger than life baddies and plenty of high-tech, suit-wearing, destructive action, you may feel a little cheated. There is plenty of action (and a suitably explosive climax), but a lot of it involves more hand to hand fighting from Stark.Personally, I thought it was quite a refreshing turn for a superhero film. Tony Stark always has been and always will be, Iron Man. If I just want to see him in the suit itself, I have parts 1 and 2 to watch. Nice to see something different. Roll on part 4 (and the Avengers 2).http://thewrongtreemoviereviews.blogspot.co.uk/
__label__8 It's weird, the movie starts without the opening credits. Soon it begins you will forget everything but the only focus on the movie and the story. Like other two 'Iron Man' I liked this third movie as well but this movie was a little lacked in high-octane action stunts. But still no short for an entertainment.'Iron Man 3' one of a most anticipated movie of the year. I still don't understand this movie and 'Avenvegers' are connected or separate stream stories because Tony behaves like there's one like he suffers from post traumatic stress disorder. Anyway this movie was a bit more dramatised than stunts, it tells his earlier time mistake which creates a deadly enemy for the present. I always wondered such a good actress, Gwyneth Paltrow, appearances in earlier two movies were so wasted. At least she gets some improvise role here, maybe we can expect more from her in the next movie in the series I guess.I totally loved the Ben Kingley's cameo though I easily guessed the twist on his role. More or less this movie's success made 'Iron Man' trilogy to one of a fine trilogy ever. A good movie to watch once, especially if you ever liked 'Iron Man' duology or any other sci-fi- action movies.8/10
__label__8 Disney presents Tim Burton's Alice in WonderlandSTARRINGJohnny Depp... as Willy Wonka, if Willy Wonka hadn't been Michael JacksonMia Wasikowska... as a winsome young lady Alice who discovers her inner fortitudeCrispin Glover... who doesn't dance, unfortunatelyHelena Bonham-Carter... with a big headMatt Lucas... as two Matt LucasesStephen Fry... who does actual voice acting and doesn't just read his linesPaul Whitehouse... who against all my expectations, still does know how to be very funny Alan Rickman... who nearly steals the movie, just by doing what he does bestChristopher Lee... who actually steals the movie with just two linesANDBabs Mitchell-Windsor... playing a character her actual, real sizeI can see why the they've not really wanted to call the film a proper sequel. It is that, being the story of a nineteen year old Alice who returns to barely-remembered Wonderland, but it also lifts dialogue and scenes from the original books. The story is your standard journey, emotionally, but all set in a very Tim Burton Wonderland.Which, of course, looks astounding. Wonderland is an amazing place, often colourful, but equally often ravaged and desolate. It's a treat for the eyes, with the imagination and design shining through the technology. (It's very, very good, but strange things happen if you look somewhere the 3D doesn't want you to look and there's the odd moment of strangely stiff animation, especially when human(-like) characters are completely CGI-ed up.)Unexpectedly, it sometimes feels like one of the Narnia films (though makes those movies look like accountant-led spreadsheets that have been printed out on toilet paper and left out in the rain), but mainly it's exactly what you'd expect from Tim Burton's Alice in Wonderland. It's a great big treat of a movie, to be sure. Given that it's Tim Burton working with Disney, it's often gruesome and scary, but not too much. It makes you laugh at times, it pins you to the back of your seat at others, it gets you leaning forward trying to drink in every detail of the place, but it's not ever actually surprising. You know what's up, you know where things are going and you're never shocked. (Maybe once, in a quiet, horrible scene that stands out, even amongst the rest.) Even if you've not seen a single still photo or second of footage, if you know Wonderland and you know Tim Burton, you can picture it yourself effortlessly.So much of it is still in my head this morning, but it's all visual. There's no heartache or sense of triumph that lingers after a great story. Funny as it is, there's only one line I'm ever likely to quote (a single word). I just have these amazing images left in my brain. In that sense, then, it's appropriately dream-like.I doubt I'll go back and watch it again at the cinema, but I'm most definitely getting the Blu- Ray when it comes out next week, or whenever Disney decided they should bring it out.If it feels like I've damned it with faint praise, I don't intend to. It's all pretty wonderful for the two hours it takes to speed past you, but I just want to make it clear - nothing that goes into your ears or your heart ever quite matches what goes into your eyes.
__label__8 Tim Burton's Alice in Wonderland is a sequel and not a retelling of the original children's novels by Lewis Carroll. In this film, Alice is now 19-years old, and soon after the death of her father, is proposed to be married away. Feeling pressured, she runs off, following a white rabbit, which leads her to Wonderland, a place she only vaguely remembers from childhood. There, she meets past familiar faces as the Mad Hatter (Johnny Depp), the Blue Caterpillar (Alan Rickman), the Cheshire Cat (Stephen Fry), and eventually the Red Queen (Helena Bonham Carter), who has been terrorizing the land with her harsh rule and beheading of heads. Alice finds out that her destiny is to end the Red Queen's rule by slaying the queen's dragon, Jabberwocky, as written in the prophesy. Along the way she meets up with all sorts of colorful characters.If you remember, Steven Spielberg's Hook was the live action sequel to Peter Pan. Similarly, Tim Burton's film is very much like a close cousin, except it's about Alice. The progression of the story is also kind of similar, where the main character, Alice, like Peter, must rediscover herself and finally defeat her nemesis. Likewise, both films are both elaborately staged, they are both about growing up and making choices, and there's a big showdown. Chances are if one liked Hook, one will find many things to like about Alice.Tim Burton's version of the Wonderland's environments are gorgeous, imaginatively created, lots of colorful details, and breathes life. The castles are sleek and intricately designed. The creatures are generally live versions (CG) of the Disney's previous animated version, and they're even more odder and fun to look at. I particularly loved the portrayal of the Chesire Cat in this film, and the way he snakes through midair like water feels very natural, although it wouldn't feel so natural in real life. Only complaint I may have in terms of visuals would probably be where we see CG versions of natural creatures like dogs--they're not particularly stylized so their CG-ness can be more noticeable.Danny Elfman's score fits the environment just right, giving added intensity when needed. This film is essentially Tim Burton's playground and even if there wasn't any story, it still would be plenty of fun to just watch the loony characters in their environment. I will add that 3-D aspect of it helped a lot.Johnny Depp plays the Mad Hatter with usual gusto, as he brings much energy and quirkiness to such an oddball character. I suppose there is a mix of Willy Wonka and Jack Sparrow in there somewhere. Given that other characters are mostly or completely CG, Johnny Depp's character can feel a bit of out of place, as he still feels human. Helena Bonham Carter as the big-headed (literally) Red Queen is fun, expressive, and extremely likable for such a short-tempered character. Mia Wasikowska is particularly noteworthy as Alice, which she plays with free-spirited pluckiness, charm, and beauty.The story, admittedly, is a simple one, although it is to the story's credit that Alice is now an adult--it helps since many happenings in Wonderland can be quite unfriendly, bizarre, and grotesque. Thankfully, no more worries about some dream causing some lifelong trauma to some poor child. I also appreciated the fact that her Wonderland, like dreams, is an extension of her frustrations with the "real" world, where she felt she had many "expectations" from outside forces. At the same time, it's not like Where the Wild Things Are, where other characters are actually projections of real-life people from the main character's life. For example, to read Mad Hatter as an extension of her father feels a bit like a stretch, although the Red Queen could possibly represent her future mother-in-law since they both dislike animals. Certainly, one can merely enjoy it at face value and the creativity of this world and be fine with it.Overall, I enjoyed this world of Alice. In one sense, that may be the important thing, if one were to stick to the flavor of the original novel. The story within the Wonderland, I felt, wasn't as poignant as "real life" moments, which were filmed with much love and detail. Given the fact that original story consisted of series of random events and character interactions, it was nice to see the characters work together a bit. The overall result isn't something beyond what one would expect from this style of work, but it's fun, and where it succeeds, it succeeds well, thanks to the consistency of Tim Burton's imaginative visuals. *** out of **** stars.For more of my reviews, you can follow me on Twitter at http://twitter.com/d_art
__label__8 Again the Marvel comic group who were born with genetic mutations that give them superpowers .Thus, wheel-chair-bound intelligent telepathic Charles Xavier,Professor X(Patrick Stewart), runs a young mutants school to help others learn to utilize their extraordinaries mutant powers.He has appointed successor to Storm(Halle Berry)but Scott Summer(James Mardsen),AKA Cyclops, is grieved by death Jane Grey(Famke Janssen).The sheer mass of water that collapsed on top of Jean should have obliterated her.But she's alive and the role most important is for Jane Grey.The only explanation of Jean's survival in that her powers wrapped her in a cocoon of telekinetic energy.Jane is only class five mutant-like Xavier,her potential limitless,her mutation is seated in the unconscious part of her mind and therein lay the danger.When she was a girl,Xavier created a series of psychic barriers to isolate her powers from her conscious mind and Jean developed a dual personality: the conscious Jean,whose powers were always in her control and the dormant side.A personality that,in the sessions with Xavier,came to call itself Phoenix.A purely instinctual creature,all desire and joy and rage. Far more critical is whether the woman in front of us is the usual Jane or the Phoenix furiously struggling to be free.Xavier attempts to restore the psychic blocks and cage the beast again.He has a terrible choice to make,he chooses the lesser of two evil.In the meantime, a so-called mutants cure will be available to the public,reaction has run the gamut with mutants on both sides of the line,some are desperate for this cure while others are offended by the very idea of it.After discovering a new cure dispensed by a mutant(Cameron Bright),they can to choose among retain their extraordinaries abilities or becoming ordinary men.Again the good guys mutants,Storm(Halle Berry),Wolverine(Hugh Jackman),Beast(Kelsey Grammar) accompanied with newcomers or secondaries in former entries as Angel(Ben Foster),Rogue(Anna Panquin),Iceman(Shawn Ashmore),Kitty Pryde(Ellen Page),Jubilee(Wong),Colossus among them, against the bad guys mutants ,of course the first, Magneto(Ian Mckellen)lead Mutant Brotherhood formed by Juggerneaut(Vinnie Jones),Mystique(Rbecca Rmijn),Pyro(Aaron Stanford),Callisto(Dania Ramirez) among others and they feel mankind is expendable.Meanwhile the teen romance between Rogue and Iceman is broken with the subsequent jealousy by Rogue,when Iceman develops a friendship with Kitty Pryde,then she flees of the school of Professor Xavier.The story is more complex and thoughtful to follow than previous entries for newbies and takes itself seriously and displays interesting characters involving a new mutants.The screenplay provides a well-executed and exciting final solution and tied the threads were leaving in the first and second part.Special effects by John Bruno are fantastic but they don't overshadow the story.The film contains an impressive,breathtaking ending battle plenty of computer generator effects.Appear uncredited the usual cameo by comic-books authors: Stan Lee,as an water-hose man and Chris Claremont,as a lawnmower man.Lively and spectacular musical score by John Powell and colorful cinematography by Dante Spnotti.The motion picture is professionally directed by Brett Raner.The setup calls for a four part and I hope to be continued. It's a must see for Marvel fans.
__label__8 I adored Monsters Inc, it was one of those surprise movies you go into with no expectations and are blown away by. It took years for me to get round to this due to my endless watchlist but I'm so happy I can say that it's worth of the the franchise.Charming, well written, full of laugh out loud moments and undeniably loyal to the original movie with tie-ins around every corner.I especially liked Helen Mirrens character, part monster, part bat, part centipede? I like centipedes, I wanted to be an entomologist once upon a time, obsessed over bugs, learnt all about them then learnt about these things called university, qualifications and effort and thought against it. I'll leave entomology to those with motivation, you enjoy your bugs and I'll enjoy women, movies, video games and various other fun stuff.I digress, Monsters University is a sweet heartfelt movie and makes me hope they make a final part to make a monsters trilogy. Maybe touching upon certain events that happened in this as opposed to it's sequel.Sadly I don't see this happening, I think we have more likelihood of a Princess Bride 2, Brave 2 or a movie where Zac Efron doesn't play an arrogant douche who likes to take his shirt off.
__label__8 Of all the Pixar movies Monsters Inc. has always been my absolute favorite. The incredible story of the remarkable friendship between Sully, Mike and Boo made me watch the movie more than 10-15 times already. When it was released on blu-ray I was the first one to buy it. So when Pixar announced another Monsters movie I got concerned. How could Pixar make a better movie than the original? Or even one that equalled it? But having seen the movie last week I can ensure you all: Pixar is back on top. Monsters University is great fun and it's Pixar best since Up!.Monsters University, a prequel to Monsters Inc., begins with a young and very little Mike Wazowski (Billy Crystal) still in primary school. After a field trip to Monsters Inc. he has only one dream: to become a scarer. Years later he arrives at Monsters University but soon learns he still has a long way to go. His main problem? Mike isn't scary at all. He befriends his roommate young Randall (Steve Buscemi), who at that time is an unimportant loser (and later gets seduced by the dark side). The first night he makes an enemy out of Sully (John Goodman), a freshman who thinks that his family name (of legendary scarers) is enough to get him through school. A personal vendetta is born.Things go wrong when Mike and Sully accidentally destroy a sacred item that belongs to the devilish Dean Hardscrabble (a brilliant Helen Mirren). They get expelled from all Scare Classes and will not graduate as a real Scarer. Luckily Mike comes up with a plan, a bet with the dean. If he finds a team to compete in the Scare Games and if he indeed wins, he's allowed to follow the Scare Classes until the end. Dean Hardscrabble approves. Now it's up to Mike, Sully and his team of losers to work as a team and go the distanceIn Monsters University the Scare Games are very well done. I can see both kids and adults laughing their socks off when Mike and Sully, in the same team but still enemies, are doing their first race and try not to step on the items that make their body grow. Bizarre, but hilarious! Their next assignment, when they have to steal something in the library, is also a winner. But what really works in Monsters University is that the story is mainly about friendship. We not only see how Mike and Sully turn from big enemies into big friends; they become soul mates for life. To join the Scare Games Mike must find five extra members to form a team and the only ones left are a bunch of nerds that no one pays attention to and a big blue monster that he absolutely hates (Sully). Still Mike succeeds in making it work. Even when you know that Mike and Sully will win the Scare Games (that isn't a spoiler, is it?), this film isn't predictable at all. It doesn't end with Sully holding up the Scare cup but it takes one more great scene to bring Mike and Sully definitely together. I will not spoil it for you, but it involves a door to the human world and a little green monster that's depressed. Monsters University is a great film. It's both funny and sentimental in all the right places. Fans of the first movie will see a lot of cameos in this one (Yeti!). The story ends when Monsters Inc. begins. I will even advise the next generation to see Monsters University first and then go on to Monsters Inc.Yeah, my faith in Pixar is restored. Although I must confess that with Planes coming up, things can change very fast in the wrong direction. But maybe that's because I have never liked the Cars movie.9/10
__label__8 When Mike Wazowski is young, he visits the Monsters University in a tour of his primary school. A senior student gives his hat to Mike and he plans to become a scary monster.Years later, Mike joins the Monsters University and on the arrival, he receives a flier of the Scare Games that will take place soon in the campus. Mike also befriends his roommate Randall. When the lazy student James P. "Sully" Sullivan, who belongs to a family of famous "scarers", breaks in his room, they start a competition in class. Their dispute ends when they accidentally break the pride and of joy of Dean Abigail Hardscrabble, a cylinder with her greatest achievement – a powerful scream of a boy. They both are expelled from the scare classes by Hardscrambble that tells that Sully is lazy and Mike is not scary, and they become enemies. When Mike recalls the Scare Games, he sees his only chance to return to the scare course. He makes the application to participate, but he learns that he needs a fraternity. Mike joins the Oozma Kappa that is the only fraternity available with four losers, but he is informed that the fraternity needs to have six members. Sully offers to complete the team and Mike has no other alternative but accept Sully in his team. Then he bets with Hardscrambble that if he wins the games, she will accept them in the scare classes. Soon the game begins..."Monsters University" is a pleasant story of friendship and a prequel of "Monsters Inc.". The plot is based on the American college life and despite the lack of any identification with my country, with fraternities and silly parties of American college students, the plot is funny and entertaining. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Universidade Monstros" ("Monsters University")
__label__8 " Monsters University" is a new film from Pixar that is a prequel to their film "Monsters Inc.". In addition to the two main characters, a whole lot of new characters are introduced at the college that Mike and Sully attended. The plot involves Mike trying to become a 'scaring major'—something quite unthinkable since he isn't the least bit scary. There's a lot more to the film than this, but I won't spoil it by saying more about the plot.My daughter was lucky enough to go to the debut of "Monsters University". She liked it but also felt the story was disappointing since it lacked original characters and the story reminded her of too many college films (like "Revenge of the Nerds" and "Animal House"). My wife saw it with me and she said that the film put her to sleep! This is all very odd, as I am usually the most difficult to please in the family when it comes to films—yet I thoroughly enjoyed the film and nearly gave it a 9. While I would agree it lacks originality, it did make me smile. It was a nice, gentle film—one that I didn't mind just watching without picking it apart (like I usually do). Much of this is because the CGI was simply gorgeous and It was a pleasure watching such a beautiful filmas well as such a nice and enjoyable film.
__label__8 Monsters University is the prequel to Monsters inc., a wildly popular animation by Pixar. It's basically a college movie set in the monster world, but with a nice deviation from the standard.The good. Still the same incredibly interesting world with all its colors, fantastic creatures, and quirks. Interesting story, especially for the twist. Great animation, as usual. Easily enjoyable by adults. Perfect ending. Excellent voice acting.The bad. Lots of college movie, underdogs, and jocks versus nerds clichés.The ugly. Nothing.The result. If you liked the first one, you'll like this one too.
__label__8 The cruddy trailer hardly filled me with hope for this belated prequel to Monsters, Inc., and the relatively laugh-free first thirty minutes did little to change my mind; however, once Mike and Sully and their Oozma Kappa fraternity brothers enter the Scare Games, the film really picks up and the laughs start to come thick and fast. By the time the end credits were rolling, Monsters University had given me lots of giggles and even a few genuine belly laughs and I'd completely altered my opinion: the oft-used 'under-dogs do good' plot may not be as fresh as the original, but overall I reckon the film is well worth watching.Some of the best moments are clever one-liners and subtle fleeting visual gags which could go unseen, or over the head of younger viewers, but that gives the film repeat value; I hope to catch even more funny stuff the second time around after I proudly add the DVD to my Pixar collection.A very respectable 8/10 (If there had been more funny moments in the first half-an-hour or so, this would have been right up there with Pixar's finest).
__label__8 One of the more understated strings in the bow of animation giant Pixar are the moral lessons that their films provide to audiences. In 2001 Monsters, Inc. introduced us to Mike and Sully, two monsters that were part of a corporation where monsters could travel through teleportation doors and into bedrooms of children to scare them so that their screams would power their operations. Children were also seen as dangerous outsiders until the business learnt that laughter is a more successful for increasing production. Overcoming our fears, risk taking and laughter are lessons that the animation studio itself taught us and embraced on its own. Pixar have again upheld this optimistic, moral outlook because Monsters University is a celebration of diversity and learning your specialist skills. The film is a prequel to the 2001 film, with Billy Crystal and John Goodman reprising their roles as monsters Mike and Sully, who are not friends but college rivals learning the trade of scaring and hoping to be accepted into the Monsters, Inc. The film will give parents an opportunity to talk to their children about the subject of college in a positive outlook. In American there has rarely been a more important time to have this conversation. The Huffington Post wrote in April that there had already been thirteen college shootings this year. In 2007 thirty-two people were shot dead at Virginia Tech. Though never short of funding, the American education system also still produces consistently subpar performances. Countering these pillars of fear and tension, Monsters University captures the emotions of college life and then gleefully subverts them. The core of the film is the friendship of Mike and Sulley, who represent contrasting attitudes in college study life. Mike is hardworking, ambitious and by the book but also small, an outcast and a loner. He wants to be the sole leader. Sulley is unprepared, lazy and coasts off his family name as a Sullivan. He's bigger, more intimidating and popular than Mike and expects everything will come through his natural ability and that he doesn't need to study. After making a bet with Dean Hardscrabble (Helen Mirren), they're thrown together into a Scare Games contest, where they reluctantly band together, along with other loners, to complete a series of challenges to stay enrolled in the college. Each game played against the other rival fraternity houses gives the film a story structure that is not dissimilar to The Internship. Unlike that film though, you actually care dearly about the characters. This is one of Pixar's greatest strengthens, not just as animators but as filmmakers. Each of the hilarious characters, including a middle-aged student and a two-headed dancer, helps to understand each other's strengths and how to use these in the tasks. It could be viewed as a generic 'be yourself' message but in the context of a college setting its thematically sensible because college should be a place where people learn their own skills and can take unexpected detours and still succeed. For those assuming this is a derivative underdog story, there is a huge point of conflict in this film, coupled with Pixar's trademark lump in the throat moments, as the story shifts into its darker unexpected final act. The director of the film was Dan Scanlon, who worked as a storyboard artist for Pixar on Cars. He graduated from Columbus College of Art and Design with a Bachelor of Fine Arts and in his first Pixar film as director he has used these visual skills exceptionally. The film is hysterically funny, partly due to the wit but also the number of sight gags on display. Monsters University itself resembles a proper college, with lecture rooms, dorms and orientation stalls, and uses this detail to reference old college films and campus stereotypes. I liked the variety in the monster designs, like how one of the students had a moustache shaped like a vampire bat or the Gothic monster that had spikes coming out of the microphone she was holding. Dan Scanlon also controls the beats of the story so that there are breathing spaces between the challenges and that action sequences are brisk and never overlong. Hollywood films now are bigger and louder, but with little to say. Monsters University is a rare blockbuster that could teach audiences something. The film is about learning to accept fear and failure, while remaining hopeful about change and growth through our different skills. Pixar's personal talent is that their films are still as simulating as they are funny and creative.
__label__8 Pixar is the source of some of the most deep, thoughtful and meaningful CG films and have created a great name for themselves. Personally i love most of their films. I almost joined the naysayers prior to this films release before reminding myself that Pixar has never really let ME down. And as expected excellence reigned supreme. This is in my opinion a really good film. Perhaps not at the level of Up and Wall-E, but it is certainly not bad either.Animation: A+ The animation is fantastic, then again what else can be expected from Pixar. Top quality CG that is detailed and yet so brilliantly original. Sully and Mike look fantastic as do all the other characters. And if you see the detail of the university, Mike's room and many other portions such as that in the human world, you will be flabbergasted by how amazing it looks. The cuteness of the characters is an added bonus. Pixar is one of those rare studios that pay the greatest attention to surroundings as well as every other aspect, making you want to take notice of everything from posters in the dorm, headlines in newspapers and the sheer workmanship of the great environments whether they are the university, the living room, the bedroom or any other setting. Story: B+. OK i agree there were parts that had resemblance to Revenge of the Nerds and Harry Potter and the Goblet of fire and it got quite to close to situations in college movies of years past. Though the originality of the scare games and what they signify to Mike is really quite sweet and pretty original if you think about it. I like the youthful characters of Mike and Sully but the change in personality is way too drastic when comparing to how they turn out in Monsters Inc. Also they at some points feel like characters from similar movies and this tends to make the film feel tired. So it is best not to make comparisons if you want to have a good time. You don't get your usual ending and the pretty true-to-life messages elevate it from being just ordinary. The reality of their situation and the hard life lessons that are thrust upon them give a picture of the pitfalls life gives us in real life and the effect it has on character. These are just some of the major, resounding themes. And yet even through it the positivity and depth still resonates. You will no doubt smile all through and have several genuine laugh out loud moments that add to this pretty great emotional mix. Yes a college comedy does not need to be PG or R rated to be funny and this one succeeds in triumphing over other college movies. And as someone who understands and has been through what Mike's character faces in this movie, that added extra resonance and heart. A twist on the similar films, heart(as with all Pixar), depth, resounding mature themes, life as we know it, witty humor and smiles galore, what more could you ask for? There are some minor continuity errors between the prequel and the original but those are minor and the story more than makes up for it. All in all a good effort. Monsters Inc is a great film, and one of the absolute best from Pixar. Monsters U may not be at its level but it nevertheless a very good film. Music: A. The score is good, really good. Though i felt so much similarity between it and the Toy Story trilogy as well as The Princess and the Frog. Then again they too were works by Randy Newman and those scores were great too. Perhaps it is just me but i also noted similar music to Up in this awesome film. Overall: A great film that can be seen as a family, a group of friends or individually. A film that will be appreciated especially by college student. Pixar once again does a good job.As a small note, look out for great references to Monsters Inc. It will add to the smiles.8/10.
__label__8 We all have a feeling of dread when we heard of a sequel going into production when referring to a movie that we enjoyed. Especially if that movie is based on something left over from our childhood. While the first Transformer movie was enjoyable, Transformers 2: Revenge of the Fallen exceeded all of the expectations I could have possibly had while all the while blowing the first movie out of the water.~Possible Spoilers~ Shia LaBeouf turns in a finely tuned performance that exemplifies his growth from child star to emerging actor. Josh Duhamel returns as Lennox as a side character with his own plot that quickly steals the scene. Megan Fox was the only low spot in the cast, highlighted mostly in action scene involving little dialogue and a lot of bounce. The special effects were amazing and the exotic locales were excellent as the journey takes the viewer on a whirlwind tour of both the world and human history. Michael Bay pulled no punches in the witty banter involving the giant robots and their human counterparts. The plot though stretched at times was credible in the overall action of the story. Clearly audiences know better than to go to a Michael Bay film if they want an Academy Award winning performance.All in all, this movie was not to be missed. It will be one of the hardest movies to beat this summer in the action department as young adults and adults alike will enjoy the action, drama, romance and scenery.
__label__8 Oz the Great and Powerful tells the story of how the great wizard Oz from the Wizard of Oz came to be. It follows the young Oz (James Franco) as he is swept away to an enchanted land ending up in the middle of a power struggle between three witches. The young Oz is a trickster who deceives those he wants and/or needs for his own ends. This attitude has consequences and those consequences are what drives the story forward.James Franco plays the young Oz brilliantly. The character is a shallow small time magician and the story shows how he comes full circle to be the Great and Powerful Oz from the Wizard of Oz. Unfortunately, his change happens after taking a grievous toll. The three witches who Oz comes to affect are Theodora (Mila Kunis), Rachel Weisz (Evanora), and Glinda (Michelle Williams). The three play their parts and give great performances to add to their resumes. For those who watched and loved the Wizard of Oz in their childhood, this movie is the perfect prequel. Watching it as an adult was a treat. The writers did well to adapt the script to make it a worthy prequel. In addition, the movie does well to entertain both children and adults. It slots in perfectly as the precursor to the Wizard of Oz. The film didn't have the best reception but I encourage you to ignore this. The directing is probably the weakest link in this movie, but the story and actors more than makeup for this. The character development is amazing and shows exactly why things were they way they are in the Wizard of Oz. Simply stated Oz the Great and Powerful is truly a prefect prequel.
__label__8 To attempt a follow-up to a beloved classic such as 'The Wizard of Oz' would seem entirely foolhardy; yet there is sheer magic in Sam Raimi's 'Oz: The Great and Powerful', an always engaging, consistently entertaining and utterly bewitching fairy tale fable that elegantly evokes the 1939 classic while being entirely in tune with the sensibilities of modern-day audiences. As clear reverence to that legendary picture, it opens in black-and- white and framed in Academy ratio with the traveling magician Oscar Diggs (James Franco) at the Baum Family Circus in 1905 Kansas. It's no secret that Oscar will eventually become the Wizard; all that matters is how he gets there, and what follows is a beautiful journey imagined by screenwriters Mitchell Kapner and David Lindsay-Abaire of how an ordinary man can become a great man with a good heart and a little bit of faith.As such tales do, this one starts with who Oscar isn't – and that is, an honest and reliable person. No doubt as a magician, Oscar will always have a trick up his sleeve; but Oscar hasn't simply been hoodwinking his audience. Instead, the smooth talker has also been fooling any beautiful lady whom he meets; even as one such lady (Michelle Williams) hopes to persuade him in his trailer to marry her, the relative of another broken-hearted woman gives furious chase, forcing him to climb into his hot-air balloon for escape.That is the first of many narrative sleight-of-hands in which fans will immediately recall Victor Fleming's original. Here, a giant tornado whisks him right into its eye, where he watches with wide-eyed horror as every manner of debris flies dangerously around him. Once again taking a cue from the original, this sequence is filmed for maximum thrills – especially so with an added dimension – with an exhilarating ride down a gushing waterfall added in for good measure. As Dorothy was in 'The Wizard of Oz', Oscar is greeted by a kind and beautiful witch, Theodora (Mila Kunis), who is immediately spellbound by the possibility that he could very well be the great and wonderful wizard that an ancient prophecy had foretold. Those familiar with the tale will recall that Theodora is but one of the witches of Oz; besides her, there is her sister Evanora (Rachel Weisz) as well as the supposed evil one called Glinda (Williams again) whom Evanora accuses of murdering her father. The fates of these pivotal witches of Oz is intertwined closely with Oscar's transformation from an opportunistic and self-centred trickster to a revered hero of the people of Oz, and like Dorothy, Oscar is joined on his adventure by two unlikely companions – a flying monkey (Zach Braff) and an all-porcelain China Girl (Joey King). Along the way, fans of both Baum's novels as well as the original will recognise the other cleverly placed narrative sleights – including flying baboons, singing and dancing Munchkins, poisonous-scented poppy fields, and floating magic bubbles. Yet at no point do these plentiful references ever feel slavish; rather, building on a solid foundation from Kapner and Abaire, Raimi creates a visually resplendent world wowing in its lovingly rendered details that feels fresh and original. The effect is, we dare say, just as magical as that audiences in the past were transported on when Fleming's Technicolour visual effects fantasy was first unveiled, and perhaps even more so with the wonder of today's CGI advances put to work.There is of course much more than just visual bombast on display; in fact, Raimi uses these in service of a story that is full of heart and nerve. Cast as an unprepared man whom destiny calls to greatness, the Wizard is a surprisingly poignant character study of a flawed hero who eventually finds it within himself to rise above himself. That change of heart is portrayed in a befittingly heart-stopping climax engineered on illusion and ingenuity, a grand magic show set right in the heart of Emerald City that again brings to mind the revelation at the end of 'The Wizard of Oz' of the Wizard's identity. If there is one blemish to an otherwise outstanding accomplishment, it is James Franco's casting as the Wizard. While he does bring a slippery charm to the Wizard, he lacks the dramatic stature necessary to make the character a more compelling one. Among the three witches, it is Williams and Weisz who steal the show, the former's radiant goodness a perfect complement against the latter's icy malevolence. And though we do not see him after the film's extended prologue, Braff's voice-over for the Wizard's winged companion brings much spirited humour to the proceedings.So like 'The Wizard of Oz', this prequel is good old-fashioned family entertainment. And just because this comes late in Hollywood's recent obsession with fairy tales should not at all deter you from making a beeline for it – because this is hands down the best of them (even better than Tim Burton's 'Alice in Wonderland' in fact). True to its title, it is great and wonderful, an ageless and timeless fantasy deserved to be enjoyed in history with its forbearer.
__label__8 For starters, try to forget the 1939 classic when you're watching this. The story deals with events predating Dorothy's arrival to the wonderful land of Oz, and they're very different from the plot events in the musical that has managed to bewitch audiences for the last decades. What we have is a film which contains two marvelous performances by Michelle Williams and Rachael Weisz. James Franco has the thankless role of a man with a dubious character and questionable motives.As Franco arrives in Oz, he discovers he can manipulate some of the welcoming committee; however he is not aware of the real politics and back stories in the magic family he now confronts. As events evolve, he learns to discover that there is more to his character, but this new knowledge comes with exposure to whimsical characters, interaction with a rather alluring and wise beauty and a realization that he is able to create "magic" of his own in order to save this charming world and his own self.Williams continues to enchant audiences, this time literally with her powerful charm as the "good witch" who must fight the evil sisters and clear her name. She is now in charge of leading the fight, enlist and convince Oscar to lend her support with his particular knowledge/his own special kind of magic. She is a vision, beautiful to see and admire, as she is able to open up the hearts and minds of those around her. She is kind and pure.Weisz is the complete opposite, in a way more than a match for either Glinda or Oscar, and still pretty formidable against both of them. If her own sister wasn't a bit traumatized, they both could be the equivalent of Darth Vader in "Star Wars". Unfortunately, the newly transformed Wicked Witch is underdeveloped and not as fascinating as her thoroughly delicious twisted sister. Weisz gives a classic performance and easily joins classic characters as Darth Vader and Hannibal Lecter in the way she approaches the role, with supreme gusto and showing the audience how far you can take a simple and yet, quite meaty role.One of the biggest assets of this film is its production design, the art direction and special effects. There is a definite tribute to the 1939 film in the way the deco period is revived, but it also boasts its original look, a rich, velvety and luxurious recreation of sets that remind of cinema's golden era. The leads all look amazing, and the 3D technology enhances the magic of the story.It's not a perfect film, but it has enough merits of its own, and one hopes there is a sequel so they can improve on a very good effort, and we can continue enjoying the mythology of the wonderful world of Oz.
__label__8 SPOILERS!!! DO NOT READ IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE FILM! YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED!!!!!! I have Never really critiqued film before but I have seen really nothing but terrible reviews for this movie and I thought that I would do it a Solid and give it a good review. Yes it does have its flaws and a lot of them, you can't just focus on its flaws because if you watch a movie for the flaws, then what is the point of watching that certain movie? Because I could not tell you that answer.You can do this movie a solid with the Chemistry between Gwen and Peter, which I think is a ton better than Tobey Maguire and Kristen Dunst's Chemistry, In all honesty I never really cared for the original trilogy, Well the second one is good. Third is atrocious. But anyway.The acting is halfway decent in this film, Dialogue is terrible at points but I can forgive that. Because of the such fun time I had in the theaters. Downs of The Film: 1.) Jamie Foxx's characters dialog was complete Ass. 2.) Harry is not the goblin or shouldn't be the goblin but they waste potential with Chris Coopers acting capability with that one scene. 3.) They Kill Gwen. Look I knew that they were gonna kill her because I frequently read the comics and read the particular comic at which I was not disappointed in. But when they put it into film it sucked terribly I wanted to punch the screen. One it happened on a bridge not in the clock tower. PS: if you have seen the trailer it does spoil you by literally showing you that Gwen Is dead! I'm pretty sure that Aunt May didn't fall down the clock tower. 4.) They use Paul for literally 6 to 7 minutes through this film. Which I don't Get, why not just put him in the Sequel or introduce him in the "Sinister Six" Film that will be released when the 3rd installment was supposed to come out. 5.) No ending credits scene. With all of marvels films there's either a scene thats after the credits, such as, The Avengers, X-men franchise. There isn't a ending scene on this film or there was originally one at which they cut out. I would have rather gotten nothing than the X-men Days of Future Past Scene (Great Flick) Ups of the Film: 1.) Great popcorn fun. 2.) The Humor Works in my book. 3.) I thought this was the best roll Andrew Garfield has ever taken. its a great movie all and all. 4.) The ending Scene I thought was okay, it had moments, but in terms of a fight scene you really didn't get much as a viewer. 5.) Hans Zimmer's score of the film was magnificent. 6.) It made me leave the theater with a smile on my face and I am ready for the next two sequels.
__label__8 I went into this movie not knowing what to expect, only assuming the commercials had been far to revealing. Anyways...safe to say that assumption wasn't very far off. Anyways, now to speak of this in a more revealing light.Fascinating visuals, wonderful eye opening colors. It felt almost like a comic book jumping onto the page. The portrayal of Peter Parker and Gwen Stacy were amazing. Needless to say there's a connection felt between them. However rocky it forms most of the movie though. this isn't much of a qualm, but it was one of the more enjoyable elements. Now, onto something a little distasteful. The villains as they were developing had me hooked. Drawn into them (At least the ones shown mostly,only spoiler here). One character in this is shown to be around more in the commercials, it was more an illusion. You hope for more and it comes up short. The villains when they fully descended failed to keep what was making them enjoyable before the transition. Anyways, I hope you find this insightful. Through less of a bias side (Love Spider-man). I'd give this movie around more of a 7, or 6.7, give or take between them. Go see it and see what you think, it's worth the ticket.
__label__8 When I watched the trailer my expectations is much higher but after I watch the movie it didn't satisfy my all expectations. Of course it can't satisfy everybody's all expectations at the same time. The film is generally very good. In the way of Electro's creation is very good, Green Goblin could be better. Harry did very less research about secret projects it didn't mention there it can heal the body. Also spider venom effect Harry very fast. It start to effect Peter in a day or less but effect Harry like 10 seconds. Also slow motions are perfect and it happened the time it should be. Fight with Electro and special effects were very good. It is good to see what happened to Peter's family. Gwen's death was shocked me. I don't understand how she die. Is her back broken or is she hit the ground before Peter catch her. Anyway ın my opinion she shouldn't be dead in this movie maybe she can die in next movie or in the next movie she can go somewhere else and leave Peter. If it is go like that next movie Aunt May is going to die. Comedy is good somewhere but somewhere it is unnecessary. Rhino's type is little different maybe because I saw it only in Spider-Man cartoon. End credit scene could be about next Spider-Man movie.It was unnecessary to add a scene about X-men. There are minuses but the pluses is more than that I suggest anyone to see that film and it is far better than first movie.
__label__8 With much speculation about the success of this film, it surprisingly, yet thankfully, lived up to the billing! With expectation high despite the seemingly mediocre Amazing Spiderman it seemed impractical and implausible to believe this film would be any different. Yet with promises of a better script and storyline, it seemed as if the series was about to live up to its initially thought potential. This was already hyped up more so by the pretext of a more intricate storyline which was implied by the previous film's ending. So it proved. The storyline was better, and the bonus of empathy with villains really did not hurt its compelling case. All in all, a film that delivered what it promised...
__label__8 " . . . and washed this spider up." One pretty much expects Bond Girls to die. Every time Agent 007 gets hitched, his bride catches a bullet almost before the wedding bouquet is tossed. But when a movie's heroes are perky high school kids, movie goers expect more longevity than that enjoyed by Bond Gals. It's depressing enough when teens turn out to have their whole lives BEHIND them on Graduation Day in real life. Film escapism demands that trailers or previews must provide at least a kernel of truth-in-advertising. You expect teens to die in CARRIE, because the previews explicitly show that it's a horror flick. (Even Harry Potter's hapless "Cedric Diggory" character is a pretty minor plot sacrifice, thus no exception to this rule.) Teens are the number one demographic for movie multiplexes, so responsible exhibitors should refrain from biting the hand that feeds them. High schoolers also are the most easily influenced film fans. Ever since the rash of suicides and suicides-by-cop inspired by the 1950s film REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE, Hollywood studios have made an implicit pact with parents NOT to blindside them with another wolf in sheep's clothing like REBEL. However, AMAZING SPIDERMAN 2 is in clear violation of this understanding. Therefore, it can be rated "8" for college kids, but deserves a cautionary 4-out-of-10 for your impressionable high schoolers.
__label__8 I had pretty high expectations for The Amazing Spiderman 2 going in and for the most part it really didn't disappoint me. I love Andrew Garfield as Pete Parker and Emma Stone as Gwen Stacey as well as some of the varies side character like aunt May. I really loved the first Amazing Spiderman when it was released. I loved seeing a new much more believable take on really every character that was in the original Raimi trilogy (peter, Gwen, aunt May and Uncle Ben just for example). I found all these characters to be very likable and actually useful and intelligent unlike in the Raimi trilogy.The amazing Spiderman 2 definitely had a lot of the things I liked about the first one for example the creative way Peter uses his web shooters. I love watching him do things like putting his finger over one to make it shoot web in 2 different directions or like in the first movie when he used his web to find the lizard. I also like how Gwen Stacey is actually useful unlike Mary Jane. It's cool to see her try to find ways to help peter when he battles against the bad guys. I suppose its not official or anything but I think that aunt May knows Peter is Spiderman which is really cool because I'm pretty sure people close to him would be pretty suspicious.One thing that I really missed in this movie though was the lack of some of the side characters from the first one in particular Flash. I really liked how he started out as a jerk but turned out to be an okay guy.It was a smaller detail but I really liked the dynamics between him and Peter and I was hoping to see more of that. i have heard rumors though that Flash will become Venom in a future film so I hope that that is the case.Now I just want to give my opinion on some of the major complaints that I have heard.1. To many villains with sloppy under developed story arcs2. To much romanceI completely understand where both of these complaints come from but I have to disagree with them both. The Amazing Spiderman 2 was really more of a set up for future installments in the franchise which I know irritates people. For me though being a BIG fan of following long running TV shows and waiting all season for the big pay off of each season for whatever show I'm watching this did not bother me about the movie. I don't mind at all that this movie had a lot of set up because IMO it was an entertaining movie by itself as well. As for the romance all I really have to say is I didn't mind it because Andrew Garfield and Emma Stone work Pretty well together.So overall I really enjoyed The Amazing Spiderman 2 but I liked the first one just a little bit more. I also realize that I did a fair amount of trash talking about the Raimi trilogy which means that this review will automatically be rated down by a lot of people who see it... but oh well it's just my opinion on the 2 separate franchises.I give The Amazing Spiderman 2 an 8/10
__label__8 So soon after Tobey Maguire's Spiderman Trilogy, the decision to reboot the franchise may have been seen as bizarre to some. However, the first in this new series, Amazing Spider-Man, was thoroughly entertaining, and this second instalment has similarly impressed. In the film, Spider-Man has to deal with new enemies including Electro and the Green Goblin, as well as Rhino. The action scenes were refreshingly good and, although there were too many romantic scenes for my liking, which in turn made the movie slightly too long, they were humorous at times - throughout the movie, there were scenes which triggered a few laughs from the audience which lightened up the production. Having said that, I don't think that it was as dark as the first instalment. All in all, a film worth seeing.
__label__8 So much negativity for a film that is far, far superior to the Raimi cheese-fest astounds me that it's a kin to praising Pearl Harbour over Saving Private Ryan in my opinion.This version, like it's prequel, is so much better than any of the Raimi films in all aspects from action, story, and CGI that it's no contest for me. In saying that though, I think the only part of this version I didn't really like was the way the Green Goblin was portrayed. He actually looked like a cross between Wolverine and a leprechaun and he was more laughable than menacing. Other than that however, this is a much more enjoyable film than any of the others.The story for the film, while being pretty predictable, is very decent for a super hero movie. I mean, how many super hero movies can have an Award-winning story that is NOT original or predictable? They are all the same in one way or another so for this story to be criticised more over others is a bit laughable. There is more of a "love story" with this sequel as well between Stacy and Parker, but unlike the way the annoying relationship between Peter Parker and Mary Jane Watson was portrayed in the Raimi films, this one is not insufferable. And that's coming from a guy who hates any sort of romance in movies.The main cast done a stand-up job once again with Garfield and Stone doing well with their continuation of Parker/Spider-man and Gwen Stacy. Jamie Foxx and Dane DeHaan were excellent in their roles as Electro/Max Dillon and Green Goblin/Harry Osborn respectively, especially DeHaan as Harry Osborn who brought a sly, sneaky, and very snake-like menace to the character. I also liked the Stan Lee cameo again in this one....it wasn't as good as his cameo in the 1st film, but it was still a nice touch.Sam Raimi may have brought us a more up-to-date take on Spider-man but Marc Webb has made the franchise more enjoyable with less cheese. Ignore the hate and judge for yourself....you may just enjoy it as much as I did.
__label__8 It's not highly likely to win many new converts, but for those who already like the original and want to see more of that world, it more than satisfies. The visuals are a wonderful evolution from Tron and the story of a father and son who have to make up for lost time is very touching. The CGI face they developed for Jeff Bridges is not perfect, but it works very well with just a few exceptions and I feel, for my own tastes, that they have actually bridged the uncanny valley with this one. Still a bit of work to get it perfect, but this one works as it is. Oh, and the score by Daft Punk is beautiful. The first thing my brother and I did after leaving the theater was buy the sound track on the way home. It's very suggestive of the original but with plenty of today's newer sensibilities mixed in.
__label__8 I have never seen the original 'Tron', nor do I really know much about it really. I've only heard the movie referenced on occasion (like that one episode of The Simpsons where Homer's trapped in the Third Dimension and he asks if anybody saw the movie 'Tron', and everyone says "No."). The previews for 'Tron: Legacy' looked visually stunning, and I'm happy to report it does not disappoint in that regard. Everything seen inside "The Grid" is a wonder to behold, a visual feast. But is this the only thing the film has going for it? Well...yes and no. As far as the characters/actors who portray them are concerned...Garrett Hedlund is good as Sam Flynn. Yes, he has to utter some clunky dialogue along the way and is a bit stiff at times, but he serves the role well enough. At times he reminded me of Hayden Christensen as Anakin Skywalker (what with the pulling out of lightsabers...I mean discs, donning of cloaks, etc) - though not half as bad as him.Jeff Bridges gives a solid performance as Sam's dad, Kevin Flynn. The only thing that detracts from his acting is his digitised clone, Clu. No matter how hard they have tried to create a youthful-looking Jeff Bridges using computer magic, he still looks like a "cartoon" (as someone in the audience put it). While it's annoying, it would have at least been tolerable if it had been limited to just the scenes inside The Grid. However, the movie starts in the the real world with a "young" Kevin Flynn telling his son the story of Tron/The Grid, and you can plainly tell the drastic difference between a real and fake Jeff Bridges. It's so obvious, and very distracting. Olivia Wilde kicks butt and looks great doing it (in her skintight catsuit with neon highlights and her asymmetrical wig) as the warrior, Quorra. She seems to be having a lot more fun with this role than she does with that of Thirteen on 'House'. Quorra has a slight naivety about her in regards to some things, and displays a sense of childlike wonder on occasion (especially the end), which gives her some depth. Wilde and Hedlund share some good scenes together, and her character at least gets *some* development - which is more than I can say for the albino-like "Siren", Gem (Beau Garrett).Michael Sheen is memorable as Castor. While he does tend to "ham it up" a bit, it's nonetheless a delightful performance.Apart from the animation of Young Kevin Flynn, there are a couple of other 'minuses' of the film, like the dialogue (which is oftentimes average) and the fact that the film itself does seem to drag in spots/go on for a bit too long.However, the visuals *do* almost manage to make up for most of the film's faults (almost). The movie looks stunning - after we get past the kinda boring beginning and are transported along with Sam inside The Grid. Light Cycles, Light Runners, all mode of "Light" transportation make for thrilling action/chase sequences. Then there's the "games", that mostly seem to involve throwing discs - which resemble Xena's round killing thing - at each other, causing those who are hit to "derez" (ie. cease to exist). Another 'plus' for this film is its excellent score. It adds SO much to the movie.The film is entertaining enough, but probably not the non-stop action some people are expecting/hoping for. If you're looking to kill a couple hours watching something that's visually pleasing (but, at the same time, may give you a headache/sore eyes thanks to the 3D), then 'Tron: Legacy' is worth checking out. Fans of the original may or may not like this movie, I'm not sure, but I know that for someone like myself - who's being introduced to the world of 'Tron' for the first time - it was quite something.
__label__8 When is the last time you saw a Disney movie in December? Hard to think isn't it. Normally around this time, each studio breaks out their big guns just in time for Oscar season. But Disney has refrained from doing so for quiet some time........why? And an even bigger 'Why' is, why make this sequel now? Why not 5...10...or even 15 years ago? Many questions surround Disney choices as of late, like spending over $250 million to make an animated feature with "Tangled".......well, if this outcome is anything like that, than we are surely in for a treat.Okay, regardless of what you may hear or read about this film in the coming weeks, i want you to totally ignore it. Because going into this movie, i read numerous negative reviews, mainly circulating around problems with the script and the amount of depth. But i can tell you this right now......this movie is without a shadow of a doubt, the best 3-D movie i have ever seen. Wait a minute, does that count "Avatar"?.....you bet your ass it does.Don't get me wrong, i love me some "Avatar". I once said that it was a visual revolution. Well, it seems that it's wake has proceeded it. The best comparison i can give is this......If The Beatles are to Avatar, then Pink Floyd is to Tron. Take that how you will.Now, what makes this film oh so great? Well, a number of things. First is the amazing visual effects. I'm sure you know what your in store for by just watching the previews, but let me assure you, that is just a small appetizer compared to the feast that awaits you. Within the first 30 minutes of this film, i was literally wiping the drool from my jaw.....and the movie did nothing but get crazier and crazier with it's effects.Second, is the combination of the set decoration and the musical score, which combined, are hands down the best portion of the movie. Not since "Star Wars" or "Indiana Jones" have i seen a musical score fit the set detail quiet like this. Wait a tick, did i just make another comparison to "Star Wars" and "Indiana Jones"? Once again, you bet your ass i did. This soundtrack is so good, it will convince you to go out and buy it, regardless if there are no words.....yes, it is that good. DaftPunk, i urge you to tackle more projects like this....please, i bet of you.Now, the story does not match the epic quality as everything else......however, the story is good enough to keep your interest and keep you entertained. In fact, i actually liked the story. Sure it had it's moments where it would slow down from it's vigorous pace.....but thats fine, it doesn't matter. The story is fun, and somewhat engaging, and you piece that together with everything else, and you don't even care if it has minor flaws.Bottom Line, i will say it once again, just so it can be tattoo'd into your brain. This is easily the best 3-D movie i have ever seen. You don't need to see the first one a thousand times or even once to understand it, and yet it still fits in nicely with the original. I applaud Disney for giving the Director the freedom to make this movie how he saw fit. I don't know who is it charge as of late, but they are making some very bold steps.....bold, and pioneering.
__label__8 I keep reading reviews for Cars 2 and I am kind of surprised. Some people went as far as comparing it to the Star Wars prequels. Sure, Cars 2 definitely is no "Finding Nemo" or "Toy Story." But it sure was fun, at least for me. The plot was an obvious reference to James Bond and Mission Impossible. I enjoyed the spy gadgets and political overtones. It was action-packed and not only enjoyable for little kids, but for older kids and adults too. Why all the hate? Heck, even Roger Ebert and Rolling Stone liked it!In my opinion, Cars 1 was a little slow. It dragged a little too long in certain parts. Cars 2 suffers from no such thing.To sum it up; Cars 2 may not be Toy Story but it sure is FUN and ENTERTAINING.
__label__8 Sometimes you go to a Pixar movie and get a deeply insightful, heart-tugging classic that sings to the deepest corners of the human condition.And sometimes you go to a Pixar movie for some uncomplicated fun and adventure."Cars 2" is unapologetically the latter; it never reaches the emotional depths of "Up" or "Toy Story 3", but it never tries to be. Instead, this is a family-friendly action-packed adventure movie, the kind of movie you watch because you just want to sit back and enjoy the spectacle. Whether it's the gorgeous scenery, the breakneck chase sequences, or Finn McMissile's never-ending arsenal of cool gadgets, "Cars 2" is a movie that simply wants you to have fun as you follow along with its whirlwind escapades.Some might feel this is a disappointment from Pixar, but I think that's being unfair -- after all, no one begrudges Steven Spielberg for producing both "Schinder's List" and "Indiana Jones"."Cars 2" isn't high art, but it never tries to be. Even the best creators deserve to cut back and have fun once in a while.
__label__8 I personally enjoyed the movie very much... It was full of action and had the same old Pixar humor. The only things that critics said that was seriously wrong with the movie was the fact that they build to much on Mater's character... Mater's character in the first one provided comic relief for the movie. In Cars 2, they made the comic relief the main character. The entire movie was based around Mater and that is what made it funny. But for some people there was to much of him and not enough of the original Lightning McQueen. This is a valid point, but it doesn't ruin the movie.. I would suggest watching it for sure!JRT
__label__8 Pixar have had better films, I will admit, but this was actually a good film. I saw this film yesterday, in London, and it was on the big screen and in 3d . I was very impressed by this film and it is very hard to say which one of the cars films was the best.I went to see it with my family which had not seen the first film. They could understand it. I'm sure that shows that Pixar don't just make identical films.Cars 2 is a film for all the family and you must see it, it will be worth it. Just ignore all the other reviews that say 'Pixar could have done better' and all that. When people say that it was a waste of time to make it, it was not! Do you realise that Pixar have been working on this since august 2008! This film is not repeat not a waste of time and money!
__label__8 I just have to do it, I just have to correct all the haters out there...No summary, no spoilers, just points on what makes a movie.Storyline: 8/10 Was it award winning? No, but what super hero movie is? The becoming a Green Lantern of Hal Jordan follows the original comics perfectly. If you know the comics, you know the beginning. If you never read them, then you learn a lot real fast. The story introduces only characters necessary to the plot and nothing more. Hal, Carol, Senestro, Parallax, the Guardians, Abin Sur, Tomar-Re, and Kilowog. They easily could have introduced way too many guardians, way too fast, but they didn't. Parallax's origins are changed a little but it works out for the better, remember not everything that works in a book works on screen. All in all, storyline was good, it kept a good pace. Always remember it is an origins story so the 2 hours isn't completely filled with action but neither Casee nor I got bored.Acting: 8/10 No Ryan R. did not screw up Hal Jordan. Alright, I'll admit Hal may not be as witty as Ryan played him but Hal was sure as hell a smart ace in the comics. I thought it fit. I went in thinking, "This is going to be great, or really going to suck." Luckily, casting was very well done. Carol: Blake did a fine job. I do agree with another review that said they wished someone a little more intellectual/mature would play Carol, but in the long scheme of things, Blake didn't get a terrible amount of screen time to prove herself. Maybe as Star Sapphire she may pull out. Lantern Corp: Sinestro 10/10 Tomar-Re: 10/10 Kilowog: 10/10 Abin Sur: 10/10 I can't say much else besides that these characters lived up to the comics perfectly. I loved them all.Graphics/CGI: 8/10 Why 8? Eh, there were a few, just a few I tell you, parts where the graphics pulled the cartoon look of Spiderman 3. PLEASE! don't be afraid by this, all in all the graphics were awesome. Oa was beautiful, just a couple notches below Asgard in Thor. Green Lantern Ring effects were great, all around solid.Costumes/sets: 9/10 First, short and sweet. Live action sets: average. Skylines just like any other city, Ferris Airforce Base: good enough. Nothing spectacular but it wasn't the center of the movie. Costumes: STOP HATING ON THE CGI COSTUMES!!!!!!! Even the the comics the suits were made from energy and that is what the movie did. A powerful ring of willpower isn't going to POOF put anyone in spandex or rubber armor. The mask appears when the identity of a Lantern needs to be protected and eye color changes as well. PERFECT to me.Length: 7/10 Although, as I said before there were a few slow parts, I would have liked to see the movie for a few minutes longer. Towards the end, yes, a little rushed but it didn't ruin the whole movie. 10-15 minutes longer to put it just at the 2 hour mark would have been perfect for an origins story to me. Took off a couple points here.Overall: 8/10 By all means it is not as bad as Catwoman or Daredevil as some are writing. Those who make that comment are probably the ones who think Transformers is somehow an epic movie. Anyways, it is a good solid super hero movie. Maybe, not one of the greats like Batman Begins, Dark Knight, and Thor, but still a great movie that wouldn't be bad to take the mature enough younger kids. Parallax is a little scary and there are a few curse words, but by all means, this is not a racy film.Remember: Stay after the credits...
__label__8 I avoided this film for for a long time because I thought that many didn't like it(a la Daredevil)but was I wrong to avoid it! I loved this movie and have now seen it many times.I barely remember reading Green Lantern as a kid, but who cares, this was a fun, exciting and impressive movie.Ryan Reynolds was perfect as Hal Jordan, and everyone else was fine also.Special Effects were top-notch.The film still made an impressive $116 million domestically, which shows that many people ignored the ignorant critics.Parallax was a superb creation.I intend to see this film many more times in the future.
__label__8 A decent comic book adaptation of the DC comic book character Green Lantern. It's certainly not as bad as some critics have made it out to be. It's fun, the action sequences are flashy and exciting. The acting is all top notch and the humor is done really well. Green Lantern is unpretentious, probably even one of the most unpretentious superhero movies ever made. It embraces its inherent goofiness and excludes much of the angst and over-seriousness that we seen in other comic book movies like Batman and Spiderman. The after-credits scene is awesome. A real fan pleaser and hopefully they will make a sequel.
__label__8 The only Disney movie I cried in was Lion King. The other Disney film that came close was Pixar's WALL E. I did not cry during Toy Story 3. I went home walked into my room a realized that my Optimus Prime is not at the foot of my door, my Sylvester the Cat stuffed toy was not on my bed, and my McDonald's Sonic the Hedgehog toy was not on my shelf. My conner only housed my stack of video games. I asked myself why did my mother give away my toys without my permission? At THAT moment is when I thought about the last 30 minutes of Toy Story 3 I started to cry. This film was a carelessly thoughtful stoke of genius! It keeps both children and adults entertained. Lots of drama, lots suspense, and lots of toys! Disney and Pixar outdid themselves with this one. Toy Story was a smash hit when it first hit the screens. Toy Story 2, in my opinion, was not as good as its first installment but it was a film that almost never hit theaters so I'll give them the benefit of doubt. But Toy Story 3 set the bar "to infinity and beyond!" The VA cast was pheNOMenal. The visuals were stunning! The script was enjoyable! This movie reached all corners of film greatness (and its a kid's movie). I have no idea how Disney and Pixar knock out great movies like this (they make it look easy). I related to Andy in this film just as I did in Toy Story 3. The ending was so tough to watch without sniffling because if you watched Toy Story at around Andy's age during the time and you watch Toy Story 3 around Andy's age now (he was 17 and I am 22 and went through roughly the same hassle as he did when he was moving out for college), you would feel a wallop of emotion. Toy Story 3 is a MUST SEE. If you don't have children to take to go see this film then take friends who saw the first two films.
__label__8 Wow, where do we start with a franchise film so rich in history...and so riddled with continuity errors? The time line problems began with the very first sequel, directed by Cameron himself, and perpetuated with T3. why then, is everyone so freaked by time line errors in T4? Depending on which line to which you subscribe, T4 still deviates vastly from BOTH sequels and begins a new alternative reality spin all its own.And then there was the highly publicized expletive-filled Bale rant broadcast over and over and over ad nauseum. Upon seeing the film, I can better understand why that happened...this is a GRITTY film, full of angst and dancing testosterone. As "worked up" as Bale must have had to have been in order to pull off these angst-filled scenes (one after the other after the next), he exhibited amazing control in not HITTING the guy who blew the scene for him. I'm no longer upset or offended by his diatribe.That brings us to the movie. Well, yes, there are problems with it, and many state that this film brings little to the franchise history and instead contributes to the growing list of errors and problems with the franchise, but I have to disagree.This work, for me, demonstrates an intent to give us millions of machines marching en masse on human survivors in the attempt to quell a birthrate upsurge of the pestilence which has somehow managed to take control of its world...Mankind. The promise for something better is not only present due to how little this movie actually contributes, but by the actions and deeds therein.There are several contrivances, and truthfully they were rewriting the script as it was being filmed due to Bale's demands, but all in all (and all things considered), this is an enjoyable film that not only is better on second viewing, but manages to ingratiate itself into the library of Terminator franchise films (or will when it's out on DVD in an unrated, extended director's cut edition, that is).I liked it better than I expected, and was far less disappointed in comparison than I was with the Star Trek reboot.It rates a 7.8/10 from...the Fiend :.
__label__8 For the absolutely most part I really enjoyed this action movie. This is exactly the kind of action that I really like. Extreme action. Action that does not try to be "realistic" at all. Over the top action. (and I really hate people that can't accept extreme action, they be all like: "yeah, right, that's SO unrealistic"! Dumb people.Here's what I don't like. I have to say I have a slight problem with Vin Diesel. I mean, he's alright, it's just, compared to Dwayne Johnson and Jason Statham, he's just, well he kind of pales in comparison. His character is also slightly annoying. With his family-talk all the god damn time. We get it, you're into family, the only thing that matters is family, your little gang is family. Family. Family. And hose gravelly grunts he speaks in, ain't cool bruh. Sometimes you can barely make out what he is saying.The movie also tries to portray him as super strong, which I don't totally buy. He's a big guy, but not that big. He looks like he thinks he's bigger than he is. Compared to the monster that is The Rock, he looks like a skinny twig for Petes sake. And he, Vin Diesel, is lifting cars and tossing people several yards, I just don't buy it.Also there's some other stuff that I didn't like. There's this "computer chip" with some insane technology, and it seemed a little out of place. That stuff was straight up sci/fi. I hate when they mix sci/fi-stuff into action movies that are set today. The plot has some issues, but I choose not to care too much.OK, got that out of the way. This movies has perfectly shot, exciting, over the top-action. Several big, long action scenes, and I pretty much loved all of them. And since this is an action movie first and foremost, I won't let the negative stuff count all that much. I was very entertained.There are a couple of 'jump-out-of-a-car-in-slow-motion, at-the-last-millisecond, with-a-one-in-a-billion-chance-of-making-it'- scenes that for some reason gives me goosebumps a little. Probably because they are so over the top. I love that stuff. I think of who ever came up with something so over-the-top, and get a little impressed. Good job!Good thinking getting Jason Statham into this, I so rooted for him. He is way cooler than the whole furious-team.And that Nathalie Emmanuel, holy gasoline fumes is she gorgeous. And she speaks nineteen languages, including Dothraki, what a catch!And of course, we all know Paul Walker is no longer with us, and you're reminded of that each time he is on screen. He gets a little montage at the end, it is very well done - really sad, man. Real damn sad.
__label__8 It's difficult to talk about 'Fast and Furious 7' or how it's billed 'Furious 7', without mentioning the tragic accident that cost actor Paul Walker his life back in November. This accident was not part of filming, but did drastically change the story line and halted production for quite a while. Walker had not finished filming his scenes, but you wouldn't know it, as the filmmakers used a combination of amazing CGI and stunt doubles to add him through the entire film. It's seamless and flawless in that aspect, and yes, there is a very moving tribute to him at the end of the film, which might cause you to choke back a few tears. I know I had too.It has been 14 years since the first 'The Fast and Furious' film graced our screens, and who would have thought that it would be the powerhouse franchise it is today. The first film back in 2001 cost $38 million dollars, which is pretty cheap for a big action film. Cut to today with 'Furious 7', the budget has gone up to $250 million and has added a string of A-List actors to this high octane world, including Kurt Russell, Jason Statham, and The Rock. Whether or not you've seen any of the 'Fast and Furious' films, you're going to have a great time with 'Furious 7′. Do these films have smart dialogue or lengthy story plots? No, but that's not the reason for seeing these movies. Instead, you get a treasure trove of fast cars, big explosions, fantastic actions sequences, and fun performances by each actor. 'Furious 7′ picks up right where part 6 left off, where an over-the-top villain who seems to be able to take on armies of people with his barehands by the name of Deckard Shaw (Jason Statham), is after the 'Fast and Furious' team for putting his brother in a vegetable state in a previous film.He has promised to kill each and every member of the team. Meanwhile, there is a security surveillance program called the 'God's Eye', which can tap into any satellite or camera and find anyone with in a matter of seconds that an underground branch of the FBI wants. This branch is run by Kurt Russell, who tells Dom (Vin Diesel) and Brian (Paul Walker) to rescue the hacker who created the program (Nathalie Emmanuel) from a group of terrorists, which in turn they can find Shaw before he can kill them.I know, I'm exhausted after explaining that too. 'Furious 7′ spans a few different countries and an avalanche of multi-million dollar cars that would make James Bond excited in more than one way. Director James Wan ('Saw') has perfectly concocted one of the ultimate action films that uses fast cars, big guns, excellent fight choreography, and giant explosions to keep the 132 minute film keep its super fast pace. There are a few melodramatic moments from time to time, but it's done in a good way, so that we can grow closer to the characters. If you can get through the stinky cheese one-liners throughout, which make you laugh more than anything, you're going to have an excellent time here.On a side note, I'm so glad they added Thai film star Tony Jaa to this film. I've been waiting for him to show up in the US for so long, and I hope he is here to stay, because his fight choreography and talent is some of the best out there. Don't believe me? Check this clip out. 'Furious 7' keeps its laughs, charms and cameos flowing, and even though Paul Walker is gone, there is no sign of stopping this franchise, which is a good thing. Let it be said now, 'Furious 7' is the first big action film of the early summer. Go see it.
__label__8 Fast & Furious has become a huge recognizable name in action, today it stands as a huge box-office hit for distributor Universal Studios. With this anticipated seventh installment, they have pulled out the big guns on action, fun and surprisingly emotion as the series reaches new heights and its trademarks that make it recognized.The film lifts off where the previous 6th outing left, Dominic Toretto (Vin Diesel), Brian O'Connor (Paul Walker) and crew are home in America having securing their amnesties and living their lives in peace with loved ones: with Toretto still helping his love Letty (Michelle Rodriguez) regain her memories and O'Connor adjusting to fatherhood to his growing son. But this peace will be shattered when one of their own is killed by the target cross-eye of Deckard Shaw (Jason Statham) who is avenging his brother's demise.James Wan may be known for his contributions to horror-thriller genre (Insidious, The Conjuring, Saw and Death Sentence) but his direction and view of an action genre film is indeed an strong impression that left me and audiences in excitement. Wan proves that action is driven on speed, choreography and style and this makes F&F7 a worthy example of this. The action sequences are all big, loud and pack plenty of eye candy for action fans; from a rescue mission on a moving bus, building jumping, shootouts, fistfights and an explosive climax that takes place in an urban city. Practical stunts, assisting CGI and well-choreographed eye on detail make F&F7 worthy contender for visual effects and stunt awards in the coming year.Casting as always is close and fun in the F&F series, with Diesel, Walker, Rodriguez, Gibson, Bridges, Brewster and Johnson sharing the leading formula that makes their characters seem so likable, with Johnson, Russell, Hounsou, Emmanuel and Statham proving great supporting roles. But sadly here it is final acting appearance of the late Paul Walker (who had died in an unexpected event) which left the film in a stand-still and its cast and fans worldwide in deep sadness. The film was delayed for a year and a half but the result was something that would touch not only the audience but its crew and cast. The final scene indeed left people crying in the theater but it was a touching and emotionally connected moment that hasn't been seen in film in some years, it made me feel both sad and touched and feeling that the F&F series had ended perfectly as it won't be the same without Walker.Fast & Furious 7 is not only a fast driven action ride but in terms of quality, production value and emotion it proves to be the best of the series and one of this year's best films to have seen. It's only a thought now to see how Mad Max: Fury Road (releasing on May 14th 2015) will overthrow the action and car stunts that F&F7 has established a strong impression among audiences, but regardless this film will indeed be on your to 'see list'. Walker would have been deeply proud of how the film turned out in the end.4/5 – Nick & Jay
__label__8 One of the best action film that exists out there and definitely the best in the Furious series. With death defying stunts and terrific visuals, it is a match made in heaven for petrol-heads. From jumping cars off an aircraft to jumping between buildings in Abu Dhabi, it puts shivers down your spine! Rock pulling off his signature move to street fight between Vin Diesel and Jason Statham and yet one cannot get enough of the action. This is pure entertainment at its best. As if this wasn't enough, the tribute to Paul Walker in the end was emotional and the best thing about this film. He got a send-off that he deserved! Those last scenes cannot be emphasized enough upon. Overall it is the best action flick so far this year. "Whether I'm a quarter mile away or halfway across the world, the most important people in the room are mi familia."
__label__8 Furious 7 is a great addition to the Fast and the Furious series! It has all the great action and humor from the previous movies, but also has more character development and heart. The movie of course has its over the top scenes and cheesy dialog, but that is easily forgotten with the amount of fun you have with this movie. The cinematography is also much better in this movie, thanks to the new director James Wan. James wan gives you all the great moments from the last movies, but steps it up. The movie also handles Paul Walkers death in great way. He also has a tribute at the end of the movie. Furious 7 is an amazing time at the cinemas!
__label__8 When Justin Lin announced he would be stepping down as the director for Furious 7 following Universal's decision to fast track the sequel before the release of Furious 6, a lot of fans like myself were wondering who could possibly replace him!? The franchise wouldn't be what we've come to know without Justin, he has been around since the Tokyo Drift (which is way too under-rated) and saved the dying franchise from being released direct to video. Fast & Furious is never just about street racing but family & heist. Before you hate me, watch the first movie and Fast Five again then compare it yourself. You see the evolution of the characters and from robbing trucks with DVD players to heisting 100million. Now back to Furious 7.. When they announced James Wan will be taking over the franchise, a lot of us were worried as he was most well-known for his work in horror genre, particularly SAW & Insidious. Nevertheless James has proved he is perfectly capable of big budget action movies, just look at the air drop or the Abu Dhabi sequence!Spoilers ahead..The film started off with Deckard Shaw (Jason Statham) talking to the coma-tonic Owen Shaw (Luke Evans), promising to avenge him. Just pause and think how he could have survived the fall from the plane!? If that's the case I think Gisele & Han can too.. I mean they did bring Letty back right?With all the hyped built up from the post credit scene of Furious 6, I was genuinely interested to see how Deckard Shaw hunt down the team and continue where Tokyo Drift left off. Instead we were introduced another villain, Mose Jakande, played by Djimon Hounsou (which is unnecessary and dull), Shaw was pretty much cast aside as a secondary character. We never get to see the team from the hunted to the hunter as Shaw kept showing up from time to time. Other than the impressive action sequence, it didn't really add much to the overall story. Sean Boswell played by Lucas Black showed up for 1 minute or 2 talking to Dom and you would at least think he might want to avenge Han right? But no we don't see him for the rest of the film.. I guess we just have to wait for the sequel. Shaw brothers might be teaming up, you never know!Furious 7 was originally intended to be the first of a new trilogy but plans were scrapped due to Paul Walker's untimely death and instead the filmmaker decided it was all about making this movie for Paul. A lot of moviegoers like myself were very emotional by the credit rolled. It felt like the end of the journey with these characters you come to love and it was the perfect send off to Walker's character, more importantly farewell to Paul himself. The crossroad scene is definitely the highlight of the film and the reason I am giving this an 8 out of 10.Part of me wishes they end the franchise here but with the highly impressive box office number, a sequel is nothing but guarantee. . I am very curious to see where the franchise is heading without the essence of Paul Walker. It just does not seem right without one of the core family member.. What do you think?
__label__8 Fast & Furious 7 was special for me because of two reasons. First, it is the last movie of the Fast & Furious series and second, it is Paul Walker's last movie. Paul died tragically in a car accident in 2013 during the movie break, leaving a huge void in the cast and in the hearts of his fans. This movie which was still in its production stage when he died, is a tribute to this great actor as seen throughout the film with its multiple references to "One Last Ride" and scenes in the graveyard where actors talk of loss, goodbyes and one last adventure together. There is a sadness and a sense of loss present all through the movie which speaks volumes about the place that Paul held in the hearts of his fellow actors who not only became his friends but also brothers. The end is a heartrending adieu to the actor and had me misty eyed and wishing Paul was still alive and well.Director James Wan of Insidious movie fame has taken up the director's chair in this movie and does an exceptional job of piecing it together while also managing to raise the entertainment bar. Nowhere was it evident that the movie had been cleverly edited for the scenes that were done after Paul's death. The movie entertains and excites with its superbly done stunts with flying cars and dangerous larger-than-life scenes. The acting is as usual memorable and it was great watching all our beloved characters coming to a final point in their lives.This movie is beautifully stitched with The Fast & the Furious: Tokyo Drift and takes up from its ending. Jason Statham makes his presence felt in the role of a vengeful brother and his fights with Dom are memorable. Dwayne Johnson has a comparatively smaller role in this film but still is no less commanding and heroic. His catchy dialogues bring humour and the thrill of the breathtaking action to come. Ali Fazal of Fukrey fame also makes an appearance in the movie and manages to make us laugh in his very small role. All the actors complement each other and the acting flows fluidly with nowhere to show that all this is acting and not real!All in all, I loved watching Fast & Furious 7 and while it was hinted several times in the movie that this may very well be the last movie of the franchise but still I hope that we will get to see another Fast & Furious movie in the future. Go watch this entertaining film which is a fitting tribute to Paul Walker.This review is also available on Njkinny's World of Books & Stuff
__label__8 At the end of World War Z, just as the credits began rolling, a gentleman, scratch that, an idiot spoke up from the back of the theatre exclaiming, "What? That sucked! The book was nothing like that! Booo!" I'm sure he scurried away back home, logged online, and began tweeting, posting, and blogging, furthering his rant. Much like my response to him at the theatre, I hope he receives silence in return.It's true, World War Z is nothing like the book. The book is told from the point of view AFTER the war. It's a "historical," account of what happened during the war. Rather than make a mockumentary with flashbacks, which would have been the wrong decision in my opinion, the filmmakers decided to put us right in the middle of the action.When adapting a piece of literature it is impossible to bring every page, every paragraph, every nuance onto the screen. Some have come close depending on the material, but for the most part, they all have to take their own creative licenses. After all, it's called an "adaptation," for a reason, otherwise they would call it a copy or mimic.Where World War Z works (that's a mouthful) and where so many others fail is that just because the world slips into total and utter chaos, doesn't mean that governments, military, and law enforcement agencies go away. Quite the opposite. If anything, these scenarios bring out the best of all of them. We see generals, UN delegates, and scientists trying to solve complex issues that they don't know anything about. Rather than going into hiding, they act. Society doesn't crumble. Bands of cannibals and leather strapped gangs don't patrol the streets with necklaces made of teeth. People do what they can to survive, and the higher ups try their best to find a fast and effective solution.At first, I thought the movie started too fast. How could something this violent and concentrated go undetected, but after a while I got it. The opening montage of news reports said it all. How many of us listen to everything we hear on the news? Exactly. So much goes undetected while we focus on issues that effect us immediately. It's too late when the virus touches US soil. Not even social media can keep up with it.As far as zombie movies go this one is pretty great. Though I think 28 Days Later takes the cake in terms of realism, in-camera effects, and sheer terror, this one holds its own. Brad Pitt plays a former UN investigator who is traveling with his family just as the zombie attack on Philadelphia unfolds. The film goes from 0-60 before you take a sip of your Coke. This is a fast paced, edge of your seat thrill ride led by one of the finest actors of this generation (Pitt's acting ability is far too underrated and lost in the kerfuffle of tabloid news).For those of you who stare at the ticket window debating whether or not to see a film in 3D or standard, you might want to spend the extra few dollars to see this one in 3D (I know it's asking a lot, but maybe you can sneak some candy or a bottle of water to offset the concession stand price - deal with it). I tend to air on the side of "screw it, I want to see it in 3D." Now not every movie NEEDS to be seen in 3D, hell there are really only a couple that absolutely have to be seen in all three dimensions (Avatar and maybe Life of Pi), but this one really surprised me. 3D is not about things jumping out at you, but it's about layers. Luckily this film has both. Big chase scenes in Philly, particles floating about in South Korea, and tracking shots in Jerusalem make this one of the 3D events of the year. No exaggeration.Like so many other summer blockbusters before it, civilization is on the brink of extinction and only a handful of experts can save us. What World War Z does that so many have failed is give us hope. Hope that humanity won't dissolve into nothingness. In the face of sheer danger these fighters stand tall, take a deep breath, look the enemy in the eye, and say, "No."
__label__8 I was dubious! The rating, the early reviews, my love of gory George Romero movies had all led me to deciding not to see this. But, my wife wanted to go... Well, two breathless hours later I turned to her, big grin on my face and had to state "That was awesome!" Yes, I can see why people don't like it. It is very different to the traditional zombie movie, and very different to the book. But you know what, who cares - it's not a traditional zombie movie, or the book - it's different. So suck it it up whiners and enjoy this for what it is! (And I'm a huge fan of all Max Brooks zombie books.) The movie begins with a short intro to the main character and his family (it was enough, it told me all I needed to know) before launching into a fantastic, break neck sequence that establishes the pace for most of the rest of the movie. It's violent, visceral and shocking without any reliance in gore. The tension is racked up (especially in the escape from the apartment block sequence) with a series of spectacular set pieces (the walls of Jerusalem scene is brilliant) and things get better and bigger until the film slows the pace for the final reel with a slow burning, smaller scale sequence set in a WHO research lab in the UK. It's an unusual choice to end a movie with the smallest set piece, but it worked well for me as it was in line with Gerry's quest and the (stated in the movie) fact that the answer is often so small it gets overlooked. The gravity of the decisions Gerry has to make here are greater than any previously in the movie (where mostly he just has to run like hell!) and it's that that makes this such a powerful set piece to end the movie. I learnt several things from this movie 1) to let go of my preconceptions about what a zombie film should be, 2) that a low rating doesn't mean its for kids - I have two sons and despite the lack of gore I certainly wouldn't let then see this. Its very intense and that (not the gore) is what would scare them. 3) to go with the flow - I did here and was swept along for a rapid fire 2 hour thrill ride that was a hell of a lot of fun. I for one will be getting this on blu ray and I'll be first in line for any sequel. But I will admit, an undated version would be very welcome!
__label__8 As a well known director one says, to make a great movie, you have to (as a director) believe your movie is the best ever made. In today's blockbuster standards, we do not see that at all. What I see when I watch a Marvel/Disney movie (just for the example), I feel as a spectator that directors want to make an entertainment movie, with an absolutely needs of huge action and explosion scenes, with a crescendo structure ending with a KABOOM (what an illustration^^). That's great, that make good blockbusters – but not great. I had high expectations with this movie, and yet I am not an X-Men fan and Bryan singer disappointed me a lot of times - but the trailer gave me chills and as French, I really wanted to see Omar Sy in a super-production (stupid but true). Anyway, after seeing it, with 2500 X-Men fan in Paris, I was divided. In fact, I expected something else entirely. There is some plot holes, monotonous parts However, after thought a lot about it, I have to say that is a masterpiece in super heroes' movies. Why? Because it is very different from what we see today, we are not waiting for a finale with explosions, characters just keep moving so the finale do not overdo it but is still very impressive visually. Plus, this movie is very human paradoxically: it speaks about usual mutants themes, but the very point of the movie is can we change, whether it be the past or our vision of the present. The intelligence of the movie is not to focus on changing the past but on writing the present. But the most important thing that makes this movie great is that Bryan Singer loves this franchise and more than making a great blockbuster, he wanted to make a great movie relying on the characters. He was convinced of making the best movie ever and even if it is not the case, I felt it, so despite all is defaults, X-MEN DAYS OF THE FUTURE PAST is a great movie, maybe, one of the best super-hero movies ever made. I advise you to stay till the end of the credits, the scene is just awesome.
__label__8 My love for the X-Men was not born due to the comics, or even the cartoons, it was the video games. So, off the bat, let me say while I may know characters faces, and a bit about their background, largely I am quite oblivious to the various universes and stories. So walking in I didn't know much besides fairly recent news stories dealing with Rogue's part being cut, to Kitty seemingly being the one who was supposed to go to the past. Outside of that though, I was a clean slate. Making the movie quite the experience, even if sometimes confusing and surely with details lacking.Characters & StorySometime in the future, the sentinels have almost completed a genocide of not only living mutants, but those who would be the mothers/ fathers, or even grandparents of them. Not only that, mutant allies are killed. But, there remains hope. Said hope is entrusted in Logan/ Wolverine (Hugh Jackman) who, through Kitty Pride (Ellen Page), is sent 50 years back in time to try to make the reconciliation of Charles Xavier (James McAvoy/ Patrick Stewart) and Magneto (Michael Fassbender/ Ian McKellen) happen far before both are senior citizens.Along this journey though, there is a need to address Mystique's (Jennifer Lawrence) position in all that happens, as she seems integral in either the destruction, or salvation, of mutant kind. All because of her interactions with one man: Bolivar Trask (Peter Dinklage). The precursor to William Stryker (Josh Helman), who may not hate mutants, but surely is aware that with their rise comes mankind becoming obsolete, or downsized in the grand scheme of things. So, live or die, that is Mystque's decision, and with Logan having a limited time to change the past, catching and changing the mind of a highly illusive woman, with Xavier's help of course, is quite the task.PraiseWith this being a Marvel movie, especially X-Men, the biggest bit of praise first has to go to the special effects team. Between the fights against the sentinels, the transformations of Beast (Nicholas Hoult) and Mystque, as well as watching all mutants involved exhibiting their powers to varying degrees, it left me in awe enough to forget to take down notes at times. Also, as most Marvel movies have, there is a good use of humor, though it unfortunately isn't seen throughout but only in certain sections. Quicksilver (Evan Peters), for example, probably left the biggest impression on me because his interactions with Logan, Magneto and Xavier were hilarious, and definitely a highlight of the film. Peters way of delivering lines almost seemed Deadpool like.But, if you were to focus just on the story, and set aside the special effects and jokes, I'm slightly sad to say that the veterans do a far better job at bringing some sense of emotion to the story than the newcomers. Naturally, the genuine friendship between Sir Ian McKellen and Patrick Stewart makes the Magneto/ Professor X saga more than some re-imagined Malcolm X vs. Martin Luther King Jr. Their complicated history is masterfully crafted by McKellan and Stewart to the point they eclipse the other actors for their performances have various degrees of emotion, while everyone else seemingly only exhibit fear or self- loathing.CriticismAnd with that said, being someone who increasingly has watched Marvel films, I have to say I found it odd that the film with the largest amount of misfits, and those that have suffered, didn't lead to stronger performances. Which isn't to say they weren't good, though more so adequate, but perhaps with McKellen and Stewart there, using their veteran experience on how you could get a point, or feeling, across without overdoing it, in comparison it just makes the other actors look just good enough. Take for example the two major relationships in the movie: Young Xavier and Magneto, and Young Xavier and Mystique. Considering all that happens in the past is what is supposed to build toward the future, be it lost chemistry, or perhaps too many special effects to take into consideration, I found it hard to get lost in characters interacting and sensing a serious connection between them. Making it where the film leaped from past to present, it was like dealing with a bright enough light bulb to one which was luminous.Which to me was weird since in First Class there was good chemistry. But in this film there lacks consistency. Like a flickering light bulb you know you just put in, you know what should happen, and that it worked in the past, but don't understand why things aren't working now. And while I must note time constraints make it so long heart to hearts aren't possible in the film, I do feel like this was perhaps one of the few Marvel films, for me, which probably focused more the action and effects than it did characters and the story.Overall: Worth SeeingThough I must admit I felt a bit disappointed that the movie lacked a sense of heart, the drama of impending doom, watching Ian McKellen and Patrick Stewart interact, as well as seeing all my favorite mutants, push this toward being a "Worth Seeing.". For really, what comic book movie is really trying to aim for Oscar nominations? They are purely aimed at entertaining and keeping the franchise's name out there. And while I feel this film may not inspire someone to develop further knowledge of the X-Men universe to spoil the sequel, it is certainly good enough to keep you loyal.
__label__8 Talk about a rise and fall and rebirth of a franchise. If you're around my age than the big superhero franchises that we soaked in were the Raimi's Spider-Man films, Nolan's Dark Knight trilogy, and of course the X-Men movies. Overall, I can honestly say that I really love this series. Origins: Wolverine, is certainly a low point and while The Last Stand was no where near the awesomeness and greatness that was Bryan Singer's first 2 films, it's still a fairly entertaining action movie. First Class was (before yesterday) my favorite X-Men movie, and even THE Wolverine was an awesome and gritty and much needed different take on an X-Men story. I literally grew up with this movie franchise, so I guess you can say I was extremely hyped when I sat down in the theater for DOFP.You start off with a Terminator like intro, the first 10 minutes of this movie had some of the strongest and haunting scenes I've ever seen in a comic book movie. Humans AND mutants are on a losing side of a tragic war against the genocidal, Sentinels. A group of X-Men, led by Patrick Stewart's, Prof. X and Ian McKellen's, Magneto. They have a last hope idea of sending someone back to the point in time, where these Sentinel's were created. With his ability to heal and agelessness, Wolverine offers his services to travel back to 1972, to try to reunite the torn friendship between young Magneto and Prof. X, and band together to prevent this horrible war from happening.My god, what a rush this movie was. I don't think I had this sense of wonder watching a comic book movie since The Dark Knight Rises premiered. The eerie opening got me by surprise, but it worked. It perfectly showed us the audience, just how serious and catastrophic this battle with The Sentinels is. So from the start I'm hooked, then we get into this crazy plan hatched up that sends Wolverine to the 70's and get a bit more lighter, but then we see James McAvoy in a terrific performance as young and troubled Charles Xavier, Jennifer Lawrence being as hot and more bad ass than ever as Mystique, and of course Michael Fassbender as the multi-layered Magneto. Everyone's performance in this movie was utilized so good. Oscar winner Halle Berry has minimal dialog, but her presence was felt, Ellen Page, Peter Dinklage, and Evan Peters all aren't front and center a lot, but they give it their all every minute they're on screen, which makes the dramatic tension so powerful especially when you see certain characters die or get injured. Hugh Jackman was great as Wolverine as usual, but in a different way, as opposed to past films. Here, Wolverine is a much more centered guy, who really wants to help everyone. He even agrees to think happy thoughts to keep his mind from bursting by traveling through space-time. You would think a movie THIS packed with story, characters, and action, that'd the movie would get lost and tumble over it's own weight and I can't tell you happy I am that it doesn't. You're never once lost as to what's going on, what needs to be done, and how everything got to where it is. The story is played out rather well. Each character and actor has the perfect amount of screen time for what it is their character's are needed for. Quicksilver is a perfect example, he stole every scene he was in, and while he's here and gone pretty swiftly, it gives other more important characters their time to shine. You gotta give it up to the writers and the absolutely terrific direction of Mr. Bryan Singer. Just hearing the X-Men theme song playing during the begging made my eyes tear, this movie really brought the X-Men back to greatness. The special effects were spot on, my favorite scene even outshining the big stadium scene was, Quicksilver's kitchen run. The combination of music, humor, effects, and practical effects worked to summer blockbuster perfection. The design on the Sentinel's were OK, I wasn't blown away by them as they reminded me a lot of the giant robot guard from the first Thor movie. The setting of 1970's Washington makes for some pretty nice looking sets and sequences and the future scenes were awesome. The action is filmed so well and the powers of the mutants make the action just the kind of jaw dropping eye candy I've been wanting. This is one of the best movie I've seen all year, it may have even beaten out Captain America: The Winter Soldier as my favorite comic book movie of the year. The action, acting, and story are exceeded my expectations. I really believe the hype and I see why people are rushing back for another viewing, this is a fantastic movie and I give it my highest recommendation. This movie was a Cineadventure.
__label__8 I wasn't blown away by this flick, but I did enjoy it. And I also enjoyed...1. No potty humor 2. No overt sexuality 3. No inappropriate language 4. No seemingly random 3D FX 5. No politically correct messages or characters 6. No strutting egotismIn short, it's not a Follywood movie and you can actually let your kids watch it without worrying too much. There is some violence, but...The script is well written, the acting is better than good, and it moves along at a pretty lively pace. Not a classic, but good. It might have been better a little shorter, but that can be said of most movies these days.I was surprised to hear so many complaints.
__label__8 Wow - very cool. A good retelling of an old story without any smarmy adult jokes or insinuations, although I must say some moderately rough visual moments. But nothing my 7 year old couldn't handle. Commoner Hoult finds himself helping out princess Tomlinson on more than one occasion, the most serious being when she's held or chased by giants. Of all the actors McGregor charmed me the most in a calmly confident role as head of the king's Guardians. Hoult and McGregor battle the giants in the clouds and then engage in round two when the giants come to earth. Tucci is good, as always, in this case playing the villain. The special effects are well done but not overdone (as is so often the case nowadays). The story is pretty much told straight, without a lot of fluff, although the running time of about two hours was probably more than it needed to be. Somewhat derivative but very enjoyable nonetheless, it's recommended.
__label__8 In the kingdom of Cloister, in Albion, there is a legend about giants that came from the realm of Gantua, between Earth and Heaven, using a large beam stalk and were defeated by King Eric that was wearing a magic crown. The eighteen year-old day-dreamer farmer Jack (Nicholas Hoult) has been fascinated by this tale since he was a boy. When he goes to the market to sell his uncle's horse and cart to buy material to repair the farmhouse roof, he defends the honor of Princess Isabelle (Eleanor Tomlinson), who is also fan of the legend and is secretly in town, and Jack has a crush on her. Then he stumbles with a monk that has stolen magic beams from the evil Roderick (Stanley Tucci), who is engaged with Isabelle, and he offers the beams to Jack to have his horse and escape from the soldiers that are chasing him. When Jack shows the beams to his uncle, he throws them on the floor, angry with the naivety of his nephew. Meanwhile Isabelle flees from the castle to have her own adventure but she finds a storm and seeks shelter coincidently at Jack's farmhouse. But one of the beams is watered and a huge beam stalk grows, taking Jack's house with the princess trapped inside. When King Brahmwell (Ian McShane) arrives in Jack's land with his knights, he sends a team of the princess's guardians to seek out Isabelle. Jack volunteers to go with them, led by the knights Elmont (Ewan McGregor), Crawe (Eddie Marsan) and Bald (Mingus Johnston). Roderick and his right-arm Wicke (Ewen Bremner) cut the rope and most of the knights falls from the sky and dies. Soon they find the land of Gantua and learn that the giants are not legend. Will they succeed to rescue Princess Isabelle? And what are the evil intentions of Roderick and Wicke? "Jack the Giant Slayer" is a great family entertainment with a funny and full of action story. The special effects are top-notch and as usual, professional critics, pretentious intellectuals and imbeciles do not like this type of movie, but they insist on watching it to write bad reviews. Bryan Singer again makes a great movie and the only but would be Nicholas Hoult in the role of an eighteen year-old teenager. The character could be a little older in the story. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Jack - O Caçador de Gigantes" ("Jack – The Giants Hunter")
__label__8 Being a kid at heart and not liking broad beans as a youngster I had to find what a few magical beans could do.The cast had a quite a few well known actors which supported the quality of this film and the graphics were outstanding . The giants were superb and these would have made up for anything if the film had been bad, but there wasn't anything bad at all The way it started as a bedtime story and the way it finished at the the ..... was a very well thought out!Family's will love it - entertainingly all the way through that will keep your kids on the edge of their seats.
__label__8 Jack, magic beans, beanstalk, giants, Fee Fi Fo Fum - if you ever had bedtime stories read to you when you were small, there will be no surprises here.This is a romp, plain and simple, and by far the best of the recent spate of re-imagining fairy stories - this one is hardly reimagined at all, it simply fuses Jack (of beanstalk fame) with Jack (of giantslaying fame). It does add in a slimy rotter (Stanley Tucci having enormous fun with Duston Hoffman's old teeth from Hook) and a rather anonymous princess (with a much less anonymous dad in the form of Ian McShane), and a host of expeditioners up the beanstalk, all of who are available for slaughter, and not always in the order you expected, either. Nicholas Hoult is a personable Jack, and Bill Nighy, as the Giant General, gives his Davy Jones voice from Pirates another outing, albeit with an Ulster overcoat replacing the kilt.The special effects are terrific, the 3D less so: like so many 3D movies there are some shots which have a "Wow!" element, but the 3D is hardly noticeable through much of the movie.Some of the violence is such that I would not recommend this for small children. Otherwise, this is a terrific fantasy movie, the best of the recent bunch.
__label__8 If you're expecting to get Inception-ed or draw life inspiration out of Jack the Giant Slayer, maybe you should try a different theater in hopes for a more mind-blowing movie! (Any movie where the second part of the name is "the Giant Slayer" probably isn't so deep and philosophical! Just saying!) That being said, for what it is--a movie for everyone, which it bills itself as--it is a m a z i n g! Great graphics, not too cartoon-y for everyone over the age of twelve and not too realistically gruesome for those who might have nightmares after (although if you're a scaredy-cat like I am, you might have them anyway, lol), exciting music appropriate for an action-filled, fast-paced flick, an easy-to-follow story line with some well-thought-out twists, and characters who keep the plot moving forward with actors / actresses who play their roles well! There is also a very clever twist at the conclusion of the movie that I think, if nothing else, makes the whole thing worth watching because, just as you think the movie is beginning to wrap up in a neat little knot, the end leaves you wondering and opens the door to a possible sequel! (What a GOOD movie ending is SUPPOSED to do!) Yes, it is a little too predictable: the star-crossed lovers, the stereotypical simple farm boy who has his head in the clouds and an angel face (seriously, Hoult is prettier than the princess!) and the stereotypical rebellious, but good-hearted, princess who is looking for an adventure and way out of his league, get hitched by the close of the movie, there is the archetypal evil nemesis complete with yellowing teeth and who plots to destroy the kingdom for his own power-struggle schemes, the giants who are dumb but nonetheless entertaining to watch for their quirky comments, the alpha male who is the true hero of the story and kind of, sort of, completely kicks ass, and the king who is "just trying to protect his daughter". Literally, you could have known the ending before the twenty-minute theater previews began. However, like I said to start this review, this movie is not aimed to win "most mind-blowing" at any movie festival. That's not the point. The point is to entertain the viewers, of all ages, with good, clean fun, a little excitement (hey, there are giants falling from the sky here, let's not kid around), a few laughs along the way (those giants, they be actin' a fool sometimes, too!), and of course, as always, get the two star-crossed lovers together...which it does marvelously!
__label__8 Overall it was an appreciable Direction and Cinematography; Still I felt that the Actors were not so Appealing w.e.f. Jack and the Princess Isabelle. The role of the King's troop should have been more Inclusive in the Battle. The Fantasy World of the Gaints was well depicted and Presented. What happened to them and any scope for continuation was not Pictured at the end. After all, it was a very Good and Entertaining, not only for Kids but for all. The end was Justifiable and I feel it should have had more of touch of Historical Aspects. Finally, as the Childhood Story of Jack and the Beanstalk got a Life in such Movie and I loved it...
__label__8 Jack the Giant Slayer (2013) | USA, 113 minutes, Rated PG (ON) 13+ (QC) | Reviewed 03/13, © Stephen Bourne UK-born Hollywood rising star Nicholas Hoult returns to the big screen as Kingdom of Cloister farm boy Jack in director Bryan Singer's thoroughly enjoyable live-action/CG-animated family feature. Here, Jack is thrown into the biggest adventure of his young Medieval England life when magic beans from a forgotten past send him, free-spirited Princess Isabelle (played by Eleanor Tomlinson), her conniving betrothed Lord Roderick (Stanley Tucci) and elite Captain of the Guard Elmont (Ewan McGregor) skyward into the realm of monstrous giants who have long-awaited this chance to mete bone grinding vengeance against Mankind.The movie's title is inspired by Jack the Giant Killer, the protagonist from The History of Jack and the Giants, a long-lost chapbook reportedly first published in 1708. Its author is unknown, but its origins are believed to come from Norse folklore. The book places wily monster-slaying farm boy Jack's gory heroics "In the reign of King Arthur, near the Lands-end of England, namely the country of Cornwall." As the tale goes, Jack's adventures brutally ridding the countryside of many colossal man-beasts cites him collecting several magical items - a sword of sharpness, coat of darkness, cap of knowledge, shoes of swiftness - and becoming a Knight of the Round Table. No beanstalks are mentioned, magic or otherwise. Giants lived amongst and fed upon us."Fe, Fi, Fo, Fum, I smell the blood of an Englishman; Be he living or be he dead, I'll grind his bones to mix my bread," is still a well-known quote coined by an evil two-headed giant from that centuries-old story. You've likely heard variations of it said in everything from Bugs Bunny cartoons to Shakespeare's King Lear. The phrase is also found in the significantly different and far more familiar 1820 British children's book, The History of Jack and the Bean Stalk. Its author also remains unknown. In that milder story, country cottage brat Jack sells his poor widowed mother's cow for magic beans that grow a beanstalk to the kingdom in the sky, where Jack steals gold coins, a magic harp, and a hen that lays golden eggs from a giant who subsequently falls to his death when an escaping Jack chops down the beanstalk. Morals? What morals, kiddies? Too funny.Sporadically possessing a similar sense of wonder as seen in The Princess Bride (1987), the movie Jack the Giant Slayer borrows from the "Giant Killer" and "Bean Stalk" books, cleverly distilling aspects of both stories into a wonderfully entertaining, freshly scribed - albeit wildly anachronistic - tale of oftentimes epic proportions for contemporary moviegoers of all ages. The screenplay by Darren Lemke, Christopher McQuarrie and Dan Studney truly crackles with punchy dialogue and wry plot twists. Hoult and his supporting cast pull in extraordinary performances here, with Tucci stealing every scene as the best comic villain seen in a long time. Hilarious. Everything about this feature consistently encourages your suspension of disbelief that these characters really live in this world of magic beans, mythical lands and monster-sized men. Even the magic beans have a compelling back story that includes a fabled, warring King Erik banishing hordes of man-eating giants back to their vast and untamed realm perched between Heaven and Earth. What a realm! Awesome.Along with the synopsis, bios, photos, videos and wallpapers, the film's impressively self-contained official site at http://jackthegiantslayer.warnerbros.com/ cleverly serves up a page for buying tickets to screenings, another for downloading the soundtrack, as well as several chances for you to win related swag from various tie-in partners and sweepstakes. There's also a Features page of interactive media such as the Fallon's Fury and Jack's Giant Race games, plus a simple Giant Photo Upload and Your Giant Height activities. Great stuff.Sure, it's a slight turn-off that Jack the Giant Slayer needlessly accommodates the latest (and hopefully waning) novelty of 3D screenings, but absolutely do yourself a huge favour and check it out on the big screen for its immensely entertaining storytelling and good old big giant fun. Reviewed 03/13, © Stephen Bourne.More reviews: http://www.moviequips.ca | Follow: http://www.twitter.com/moviequips
__label__8 8/10.I know a lot of the other reviewers will compare this film to the older one and also the book, so if you're interested in a comparison, stop reading here. I want to review this film as a movie that tells a story, like every other film. I don't want to review this as a film that tried to beat its preceding film adaptation. I myself have read the book and have always been so intrigued with the character of Gatsby, and when I heard a few years back that he would be portrayed on the big screen by DiCaprio, I couldn't wait. The character carries such a mystery about him that was delivered so excellently by Leonardo DiCaprio, and made it so fun to watch. It was almost like I didn't know what the ending was because I was so immersed in 1920s New York, and in the lifestyle of The Great Gatsby. The film itself, as a film, was awesome! The visuals and soundtrack were captivating and lavish. The acting was great overall, as you can trust these actors to deliver.I read somewhere on IMDb (message board or another reviewer, I can't remember) that Leonardo wasn't a good fit for the role of Gatsby. I think this statement couldn't be more wrong. If you have read the book, you must have some idea about the depth of Gatsby's character, the depth of his mind, his desires. The false smiles, the phony handshakes, the uneasiness in being in public, the way Jay Gatsby conducts himself in front of Daisy, and in pursuit of her. All these things are delivered so well by DiCaprio. His nerve, his frustration, his determination...all so eloquently portrayed. But most of all, his passion, and as Nick Carraway, our narrator so emphatically reminds us, his hope. The character development of Jay Gatsby, and the development of all those surrounding him gives us such a deep look at the relationships of such a diverse category of people.The storyline is obviously interesting: A man realizes his new neighbor is a mysterious, and incredibly wealthy man. Like how awesome is that? Throughout the whole film, as the relationships between all the few main characters become deeper and deeper, and the questions become answered, you just can't help but feel so into the characters' lives. Great writing for the characters, great directing, great great great acting. Overall, this is just a great film. If you go into the theater thinking "oh this'll suck compared to Robert Redford" or "I bet the book is way better", you're setting yourself up for a bad 143 minutes. Don't be so close minded and try to view it as just another film that tells a fictional story, and a great one at that.
__label__8 First of all when I read some of the reviews about this movie all my excitement was drained but I went to see it anyway. What do you now, the movie was great. It was fun, had a lot of action in it, the CGI was nice (excecpt few scenes in the beginning). I thought acting was nice Gyllenhaal (prince) and Arterton (Princess) did a good job in my opinion. As a fun of the game; the script wasn't entirely accurate just like most of the movies based on games but it didn't stray too far either. OK it was not the perfect movie but it was something that I would go and watch its sequel.Overall I enjoyed myself and I believe if you go open minded you will enjoy yourself too.
__label__8 I was looking forward to this film because of the hype, and I was afraid to be disappointed. But as the film unfolded, I most definitely enjoyed this adventure from beginning to end.Jake Gyllenhaal plays the titular Prince of Persia, Dastan, who was an urchin picked by the King from the marketplace to be his third son. He and his brothers get caught in a web of political high jinx that cross their paths with Princess Tamina of Alamut (played by Gemma Arterton), and the fabled powers of the Sands of Time.This is Jake Gyllenhaal's most accessible film so far, and he goes to town with it. OK, granted he does not look the least bit Persian, or of that particular time period, but somehow his charisma was able to carry us on this fantastic ride. I also enjoyed his interaction with the beautiful Arterton, which sparks with humor and romance. She was my favorite part of "Clash of the Titans (2010)," and same here.I highly recommend this film for a good old-fashioned, action-adventure film set in ancient times. The parkour sequences are definitely of the highest order and very well-edited and photographed. The sets and visual effects are excellent. Best of all, the story is intelligent and well-constructed. Producer Jerry Bruckheimer has again delivered a very entertaining summer blockbuster. A very well-executed film of its genre. A must watch!
__label__8 It isn't often that a video game is so vivid, so involving...so enveloping, that it is looked on as a possible movie franchise on all those merits. Usually, just the action (Doom, Final Fantasy), or just the body (Lara Croft...Tomb Raider) or just some other one aspect makes for a great game, but an underwhelming movie. I had the pleasure of watching this movie in an early screening on Monday night, and it is definitely a step above and beyond the aforementioned videogames-turned-movies.The hallmark from the very beginning of the Prince of Persia franchise (a primitive DOS programmed, side-scrolling adventure through a castle to rescue a locked-up princess) was not only having a great story, but telling it in such a way to keep the player in that world. This film, surprisingly enough, doesn't play out quite as closely to the video games as I had expected. Still, without spoiling either the games or this movie, I can say that it shows Jordan Mechner had full involvement in the movie. Many storytelling elements present in the "Prince of Peria: The Sands of Time" video game can be found here, and made for a very entertaining romp through the vast lands of Persia.I would say that my main gripe is the under-use of parkour, the running/fighting style the Prince deploys in the video games. This is a hard gripe to substantiate though, because of how difficult parkour is to execute, let alone master, nonetheless I had expected something resembling the wall-running, banner-ripping moves seen in the "Sands of Time" video game trilogy. It's harder still to be too down on a little parkour, due to Disney's desire that this film would be the first in a Prince of Persia movie franchise, equal to or greater than the "Pirates of the Caribbean" movie franchise. Therefore, I await with anticipation the creativity that more parkour would bring to the stories this most agile Prince can tell."Prince of Peria: The Sands of Time" gets 8 of 10 stars.
__label__8 I've never played the Prince of Persia games, but this movie wants me to try one of the games. The movie is very good and the visuals are stunning.
__label__8 OK, let me start by saying that I am not a person who likes fantasy movies, I am not a person who likes action movies and I have never in my life played a computer game (not counting Patience and Spider Solitaire). I do however like me some Jake Gyllenhaal and when I read that for this movie he had trained an additional 5 pounds of muscle onto his body AND that he speaks with an English accent, I knew I had to see it, if only to swoon for two hours. So I admit I went in for completely shallow reasons. As for the shallowness, I was amply rewarded. My oh my that Jake looks good!! And I really loved him with his English accent - I certainly hope he will do that more often. For those leaning more towards enjoying female beauty there is Gemma Arterton who is a stunning beauty so they were quite the handsome couple.But all in all I was pleasantly surprised by the movie. It had a good story to it, the acting was steady, the tone was humorous and the CGI people went all out for the lush scenery and the crowd scenes. Two additional reasons that I thoroughly enjoyed it were: (1) Alfred Molina who provided the humour bits in his role of Sheik Amar (I sat through the end credits because he was unrecognizable to me and I wanted to know who played the part. What a 180 degree turn from his part in An Education where I saw him last!), and (2) the use of parkour/freerunning we see Jake do in his role of Prince Dastan. Obviously he must have had a stunt double for this and some parts of it must have been enhanced by CGI but still it was a welcome change to the standard (to this genre of movie) chasing scenes which I am not particularly a fan of.If - contrary to me - you are a fan of fantasy and action, you will enjoy this even more than I did, and I already enjoyed it very much. A couple of hours of unpretentious fun of the kind that Jerry Bruckheimer has such a knack for. Well done.
__label__8 Lately movies that claim to be monsters and action have proved a complete failure, and, to be honest I thought this was not going to be the exception.Any change to see a real action movie with almost unstoppable battles monsters, and a dose of special effects so amazing you just leave you with your mouth open.Of course, not everything is good, but entertaining plot is somewhat similar to that of other films: The hero gets a big pain that leaves the battle, then when the world needs the triumphant return finds the love of his life between the two due to the bad, the nearly died, and finally live happily ever after (like a soap opera).We must clarify that thanks to special effects, battles, and good performances, the plot is not uncomfortable. I really think it's worth watching.
__label__8 We all carry a great sense of wonder. It seems to hide away as we get older, but was always strong and persistent when we were children. We could sit down and really make something out of nothing physical, or tip our toy-box all over the floor and just go mad. Pacific Rim is Guillermo Del Toro at his most unleashed. He's been given the toys for his sandpit and has gone completely bonkers, but he has also created a sense of wonder from completely nothing.The plot is simple. Kaiju (monsters) from another dimension break through to ours and wage war on the planet and us humans must do what we can to stop them. So we build giant machines called Jaegers. General audiences are doing the worst thing by comparing this to Transformers or Battleship simply because of some simple image traits. Well I'm here to tell you that you're way off and also working comparisons in the wrong league. Del Toro has crafted an insane amalgamation of Sci-Fi, old-school thrills, special effects and brilliantly entertaining set pieces that all meld together in beautiful harmony, with just enough satisfying human moments and arcs that carry a nice balance of emotion and camp. It all blends well with the loopiness of it all. Its Guillermo Del Toro's trademarks turned up to 11, all while going nuts and having fun with his toys.There's just so much to love, that not even some minor pacing problems or a couple of sub-par performances can destroy the experience. Mainly its in the lesser background characters, but for me I'd say that Charlie Hunnam doesn't quite shine in the lead. He's certainly more than commendable, but he just doesn't break out here. Idris Elba steals the spotlight with a look and a bellowed delivery and its amusing to watch and Rinko Kikuchi has such an incredible skill with her mannerism and in her eyes, that's its a shock that she isn't in more films. Ron Perlman comes and goes and works his usual incredible moments.Pacific Rim is triumphant above the rest of the blockbuster herd. It knows what is missing from the norm and just goes crazy with it. Its a big, giant load of awesome fun. Prepare your jaw muscles, because you'll be smiling throughout.(Hint: Stay a couple of minutes into the end credits for an awesome additional scene)
__label__8 Within the opening 15 or so minutes Charlie Hunnam's voice-over establishes the reality of a future where monsters (the Kaiju) repeatedly invade earth, to stem this humans have created giant robots (Jaegers) to combat them in increasingly badass iterations. This opening does a great job in conveying the scope of a film which is big, not just regular big, but like, Jason Biggs in 1999 bigg. entering the cinema from a world where these events rarely occur is initially a lot to throw at the audience, but it's handled so effectively and without tongue in cheek that it quickly becomes a world I had a blast experiencing. Maybe it was the incredible effects shots of robot related destruction used as a throwaway shots, but what I think really sold the opening sequence and the film as a whole is the enthusiasm Del Toro clearly has for the story he's telling.The cast is essentially a rogues gallery of TV's better dramas playing variations on roles they've nailed in the past (see: Elba, Hunnam and Klattenhoff) and some inspired casting of It's Always Sunny's Charlie Day who, as should be expected provides some effective comedic relief. Added onto this the score comes courtesy of Ramin Djawadi who's masterful use of themes on Game of Thrones is carried over to this film for some great emotional cues and many a rad motif courtesy of Tom Morello on guitar.It's appropriate Del Toro has a Frankenstein adaptation lined up as a follow up project as Pacific Rim can at times can feel stitched together from all the sources of inspiration the film has. This comes from many areas such as Japanese manga, the personalities of the actors from previous films and the imagery of robots destroying buildings which transformers ran into the ground. But Del Toro succeeds time and time again at allowing these disparate elements to fit together believably by way of some very confident filmmaking. I could easily take issue with the oft hammy dialogue and macho relationships but where the film succeeds in other areas and revels in creativity trumps the dissatisfaction one could take from these scenes. I also found Hunnams character a tad lacking in charisma and internal conflict but whatever, it's not the end of the world. Oh wait, yes it is hahahaha The films successes go beyond its imagery and continued invention within battle scenes as the script is very economical when it comes to pacing. The films battle scenes are so engaging and exciting due to clearly established stakes present which left me devoid of the "action fatigue" transformers loves to throw my way. And although the Kaiju battles seem to never be in short supply, the film essentially follows the rule of three when it comes to battle sequences and left me oh so satisfied.In conclusion, I give it points for being one of the funner summer blockbusters in recent memory, for being an original property and for its sheer tenacity to exist which all amount to what is just a darn good time at the movies.
__label__8 I just watched Pacific Rim on the first day/time slot of premiere in 3D. Yes, I am a geek. But that is not the whole point. If you had the excitement of watching anime movies of robots vs monsters in childhood, this is perfect movie for you. The Kaiju monsters design reminds me of Godzilla's villain monsters combined with Cloverfield monster, xenomorph (Aliens), and TRON. As for the Jeager robots, I'll let you to decide whether they are good or very good. :)To watch this movie I needed to change my mindset to be like a 10 ten year old robot geek child, like 29 years ago. Because if not, you will feel a lot of question marks and disappointment through this movie. The story is quite predictable. The plot and pace are simple enough for children to understand. And the nerd and geek professor appearances are a bit annoying for me. But hey, that what is all about: to celebrate the childhood memory of robots vs monsters.Overall, the movie is great for robot vs monsters anime fans. It's not even close to that horrible Michael Bay's Transformers.
__label__8 Let's be honest, lately we've seen so much ridiculously horrible alien invaders movies that even Independence Day is like a golden classic now. Battle L.A., Battleship, last Transformers movie (was it the 9th? 11th? I forgot!), District 9 (yes, it was horrible too) etc..So when I've heard about Pacific Rim I thought "oh no, not another one" and ignored it. Then, I saw the ratings and some reviews here on IMDb. OK another confession now, IMDb also let me down lately because people were voting like they've never seen a good movie or good script. Go look at Dark Knight Rising's IMDb rating, for God's sake! (my right eye began to twitch involuntary when I thought of Dark Knight Rising again.. aaarrrgghh) But then one day destiny did the job for me, here I was having nothing to do with spare time and an imax cinema with Pacific Rim. I looked at other movies, Wolverine - check, I've already been to, good movie. Red 2, check - it was great fun. World War Z, unfortunately check, waste of time. Pacific Rim? OK, why not? After 2,5 hours the lights were on again and I was sitting with a big grin on my face apologizing from everyone who worked for this movie. This is really amazing folks. This is old skool fun! This is really better than last 5 years' alien invasion movies all together! This just popped out from 80's with 2010's technology. Do not miss it! And try to catch it on imax 3D! You'll never regret it!
__label__8 Transformers Dark of the Moon being the third movie of the Transformers series you wouldn't think it would be as good as the first two, well it is. In this movie Megan Fox is no longer to be seen but we are gifted with a beautiful Rosie Huntington-Whiteley playing along side Shia LaBeouf. This movie added some serious effects to it with the robots. just like the first two it combines an action/love/comedy attribute. The action scenes in this movie are without a doubt awesome. The effects they used are amazing and to sort of let you catch up with whats happening they use slow motion to let you see things that are going on. I like how they've taken something that has actually happened like the moon landing and have put there own twist on what actually was happening. this was a very good movie and would recommend it to anyone interested in seeing robots you played with as kid come to life.
__label__8 I've watched it for almost 5 times, so I think, now I can make the best review of mine based of experiences from watching Transformers: Dark Of The Moon.Starting with an eye-stunning movie in 2007 (Transformers), a pure summer blockbuster in 2009 (Transformers: Revenge Of The Fallen), and an epic in 2011 (Transformers: Dark Of The Moon), Transformers hit the world, attacked by the critics, and rise again in 2011. When this series come to an end, people will be expecting more. Yes. Dark Of The Moon is the sweet finale of the series. Rumor: there'll be TF4, but I thought TF3 is the best way to end the series.The duration is about 152 minutes, it's the Avatar's duration. But when I watched this movie, honestly, I hoped it will last longer, especially the duration of final fight in Chicago. It really made me forget to breathe.It's 3D, no doubt, it's better than Avatar, giant alien robots on earth cooler than blue aliens in Pandora, it's more realistic too. And the actions were unlike the other 3D action movies, TF3 used many of slow motions in action sequences and a perfect lightning, so they wouldn't make you dizzy and surely: an eyegasm.The graphics, especially the CGs, surely the best of three, the robots, even without 3D, looked so real, for me it's the big improvement from TF2's CGs.The story, I liked the story, not too noisy like TF2, and not too plain like TF, the mystery was quite smart, and it's darker, and it's cool. The acting of Shia was the best, I thought his goal to controlled the emotions of his viewers was achieved, and Rosie, she's more likable than Megan.The movie was nearly perfect, it could be 10/10 if there's less scenes of Sam and Carly, I thought they're unnecessary, if the scene of highway battle last longer and added, it'd be so cool, so it's become 9/10. And what makes the movie's score become 8/10 is there're many unnecessary Carly's sexy scenes, the main base of the movie was epic, but that sexy scenes make the movie just like a simple blockbuster movie like TF2. And the dialogs, it could've been better and more lovable like in TF.So, TF3 is not perfect, but it's very entertaining, it's the best action movie ever, and by the way, what do you expect from Michael Bay's movie than CG and explosion?
__label__8 Its not the story or the fantasy sci-fi that makes this movie great. Its from beginning to end the special effects that get you trough the movie and the beautiful soundtrack of transformers that sound so familiar every part that comes out. And the epic scenes that start very normal with one object ready for deployment and getting filmed from so many different angles and all of a sudden a 5 minute scene of destruction comes along and boom we are at the next scene where shia labeouf is being funny and a really good actor. For me transformers is all about mind blowing special effects with robots and humans, the story doesn't interest me at all, if i wanted to go for a really good and mind blowing story and transformers would be that, i think the average reviewer would have given it a way higher score. I found it very hard to give this movie a lower grade then a 9 because if i can see a movie more then 5 times were you almost don't see any mistakes with special effect, great humor, great sound animation etc. it deserves a good vote. a 8 is to low for my standards, a 10 is to high.// Leroy
__label__8 After the critical back-lashing Revenge of the Fallen, Michael bay stated that the third and possibly final Transformers would take away everything that failed in the last movie and give the audience what it wanted. But has he learned his lessons? Yes and no. Gone are the racially insensitive robots, the incredibly messy and clumsy plotting and much of the dizzying, incomprehensible camera-work. What remains is the poor geeky humour and questionable performances from the leads. Shia Labeouf was very enjoyable in the first movie but here has gone into overdrive, and his character Sam Witwicky has become much less relatable and interesting. His home life in particular (of which the first half of the movie focuses) is getting irritating. His girlfriend problems and embarrassing parents boring and we really couldn't care that much about how he feels unappreciated for saving the world twice. Then there's Megan Fox's replacement: Rosie Huntington-Whitely. She can't act. At all. It wasn't expected that the former model would be that great but she really is poor.The first hour of the film is much like Rosie. Nice to look at (especially in 3D) but lacking any substance at all. We are left with Ken Jeong doing his Hangover thing in a 12A film, and not being funny, just very annoying. And John Malkovich doing his thing but really just embarrassing himself. There are reams of exposition, while the plot is better than the last two films it is still handed out poorly. Bay won't let the action tell the story, it has to be action, break, story, break, action. The rest of the first hour is just CGI and Shia going mental while Rosie watches blankly.But all of a sudden the supporting comic actors are dropped and Michael Bay does what he does best: Explosions and fighting. An impressive freeway chase leading into a fight a plot twist (yes a plot twist in a Transformers movie) and a death of a significant character. The whole film gets better from here. The plotting gets tighter, John Tuturro and Frances McDormand are given more screen-time (there were so many Coen favourites in this movie I was expecting John Goodman to be voicing an Autobot) and the action is dished out in spades. Whe the decepticons invade Chicago all hell breaks loose. And we are given fights, battles, explosions and collapsing buildings galore. Robots kick, punch and rip each other apart. And this is where the third dimension comes into play. This is definitely the best 3D experience since Avatar. Watch in awe as Optimus Prime tears chunks of metal out of other giant robots and chucks them at the screen while in the depths of the background, aerial battles ensue. It is breathtaking and a triumph for 3D, proving that it can be done properly and amaze the viewer.If you went an hour late to the movie, and make sure it's a 3D screening, this would be a 5 star experience of pure entertainment. But as it stands it's still a solid closer for the trilogy, an improvement on Revenge of the fallen but not as good as the first.
__label__8 This is really good movie and yes it does have its flaws, but what movie does not? These films are more focused on CGI and action. The plot is smart and is not to hard to follow. I think all of the people are likable in this film. Even though i do miss Megan Fox. As the new actress who plays Carly adds nothing to the film, but like in most action movie, you need a bit of eye candy and a female lead. The action is amazing in my eyes. And the script is not as bad as people make out. But i think it suits the film. People slate this film for all reasons. But is a classic in its own ways. It is just a good fun film. If you want you want a serious film, go watch inception or the godfather. But if you let yourself get in to this film, you will have a blast. I would say its one of the best films of 2011.
__label__8 Brave is a beautiful and moving new fairy tale that fits seamlessly into the genre; Princess Merida is a wonderfully multi-facted heroine; the film shapes itself around problems that are familiar and understandable and will be well-understood and appreciated by kiddos and parents alike; the supporting characters that are given the most attention are well-crafted (but too bad for those others that fall by the wayside). The visual effects are flawless, in my opinion, the best if all Pixar films.Brave is at its best when it's smartly and charmingly changing what we think think a Disney Princess can be, but it wavers when it tries to somehow reinvent the Pixar wheel. The film lacks the trademark Pixar wit we've come to expect from the animation studio's productions, and some humor feels shoe-horned in for the sake of having some laughs; the directorial kerfuffle that took place in the middle of production is not overwhelmingly obvious, but there is a distinct laugh of singular vision driving the film and its tone wavers throughout. It may not live up to the incredible standards of the Pixar brand, but Brave offers young audiences a lot of entertainment and adventure. Highly Recommended.8/10
__label__8 After last years Cars 2, many began to underestimate Pixar and believed that it would begin to fall out of the radar. Well this movie will definitely prove them wrong. This movie was a visually stunning masterpiece with a great story. Even before the movie started it was exciting because of the unique and creative short La Luna along with the Monsters University teaser trailer. If you are reading this and haven't seen the movie yet make sure you STAY TILL THE END OF THE CREDITS for just a little scene about something that happened earlier in the movie. Thanks to everyone at Pixar studios for creating a true masterpiece!
__label__8 I watched this movie in 3D with my (very mature for his age) five year old grandson. He loved it and wanted to talk about the plot for most of the afternoon to anyone who would listen. However, other young children in the theatre were rather nervous and scared in certain parts of the film and a few very small (2 - 4 year old) children had to be escorted out of the cinema by their parents.Personally, after the first five minutes, which were a bit slow, I became absorbed in the story and thoroughly enjoyed the movie. There was lots of action and the plot was attention grabbing and unique, with no soppy love story and little slang included.
__label__8 Brave is a film I've been looking forward to since I first laid eyes on it's beautiful trailer. It had everything a great Pixar film has: a wonderful setting, fantastic CGI, beautiful and interesting characters, and a lot of heart. In fact, Merida alone was such an interesting and adorable character, that it was instantly on my to watch list. Granted, this isn't Pixar's best, but that's holding it up to extremely high standards. As an animated film, however, this is a fantastic and fascinating film, a treat for the summer.Brave tells the story of the aforementioned Merida, a young, Scottish princess whose life is controlled by her mother so that she can be shaped into a queen someday over the surrounding tribes. In an effort to change her fate and be free of her oppressive, but loving mother, she attempts to change her fate, and in the process makes a huge mistake. I won't get into plot details, as the trailer really doesn't give a lot away in terms of what this film is really about, but suffice to say, there is plenty of fun and adventure to be had.Pixar always manages to create an interesting and unique tale, and this goes right up there with the best of them. Using the Scottish highlands is both an inspiring choice and allows them to craft a beautiful film. With sweeping mountains, water, and thick and colorful forests, this is one of Pixar's best looking films to date. It trumps the jungles of UP and even the magical underwater world of Finding Nemo. There is a certain amount of magic in the environments alone, and gazing on it is a wonder. The characters are also fantastic. Merida is a wonderful addition to Disney's princess lineup, and unlike those others, she is no damsel in distress. She, like her mother, is perfectly capable of handling herself, with her trusty archery skills and even tackles a few dangerous situations on her own instead of having someone there to save her. In fact, this could be seen as an inverse, as Merida actually becomes a hero in many ways and triumphs over the males in her own age bracket. Also of note is Billy Connolly, voicing Fergus, who lends his comedic chops to create a wonderful and likable character.While this film may not be up there with Pixar's best, it still has a wonderful story and character interaction. Merida's relationship with her family feels genuine and most children will probably be able to relate. At the heart of the story is her relationship with her mother. This is more than a story about fate, but a story about obligations to family and how growing up means taking responsibility and putting away childish selfishness in place of those responsibilities. Although the core plot is unconventional and unexpected, it has a fantastic heart and once again proves that Pixar can tell a story like no other.Brave is an entertaining, humorous, and heartfelt story that will be wonderful for kids and adults alike. Merida is a wonderful new character and the entire film looks beautiful. Even if you don't have children, I recommend this film if you've loved other Pixar's before it.
__label__8 After the noisy and irretrievably stupid (though reasonably entertaining) Into Darkness, I wasn't desperate to watch this one, but when I finally did I was relieved to discover that it was even more enjoyable than the first film in the reboot, a rollicking adventure with terrific alien weapons, fun McCoy/Spock repartee, a promising newcomer alien, and a lot of really excellent action scenes. The movie had almost all the qualities of the original series except one - the thinking part. The smartest thing in the movie is the funny opening scene, which suggests the difficulty of communication between different cultures. But that's the last thing in the movie that suggests even a moment of thought. The main villain has very little in the way of motivation, and when he explains his purpose it's quite disappointing. Nothing in this movie is there to provoke thought, and I'm not entirely convinced that anything in the movie really makes sense, although there's nothing at the time that hit me as too absurd to live with (unlike the previous movie).If you expect this movie, like the series, to explore racism and war culture, well, you're not going to be happy. But if you just want some old-fashioned action with some familiar characters, this totally hits the spot.
__label__8 With two great movies under it's belt, the latest installment in the Star Trek reboot has some big boots to fill. I was skeptic when I heart J.J. Abrams was not directing it and the writing was done by Simon Pegg and Doug Jong. Fortunately, it turned out to be a solid trek film.Star Trek Beyond begins with the Enterprise and it's crew on a five year research mission in uncharted space which was assigned to them at the end of the previous movie. Kirk is struggling staying focused as captain of a starship and he is doubting himself if this is the life he wants to live. The Enterprise takes a break from exploring in a massive star base called Yorktown. The star base receives a distress call from an alien woman who lost it's crew on a distant planet. Of course the Enterprise is the best ship to help the alien woman and search for the crew. But this search and rescue mission turns very ugly when they encounter one of the most ruthless villains who's hatred of the Federation puts the whole enterprise crew to the test. I think they did a marvelous job again and made a Star Trek movie just as great as the previous two installments. The villain was not as interesting as Kahn but the movie makes up for it by focusing on the characters. The story lays more focus on new development like the bond that grows between Bones and Spock and the new female alien character Jaylah (Sofia Boutella, who did a marvelous job) which Scotty encounters. The third act of the movie is the best (with an excellent soundtrack, Beastie Boys and Star Trek mixes very well!) and they once again pull out all the stops with visual and sound effects.The only caveat I have with this film is the slow start and the main plot being a bit simplistic. Sometimes it feels just like a regular Star Trek episode, but then again that is also one of it's strengths. So definitely check this one out if you liked the previous two Star Trek films, it's a solid and very entertaining journey.
__label__8 Spoiler free review: I was lucky to go to the premiere in San Diego at comic con... the night was amazing but it ended with a super fun movie. That's the best word to describe it... fun.The difference with the past 2 Trek movies was that unlike the original films we didn't bond with this cast over 100 or 200 episodes of slower paced TV. These guys were just tossed into it. This movie gives us an idea what a show with them would be like. It's impossible of course to do. But it was such a nice break form the overreaching drama from Into Darkness. This is still serious and has tearful moments and sincere motivations from characters... but it's also fun. Some people forget the original trek as Justin Lin told the crowd at the premiere that the original series was fun. It was funny. It was a pure comedy at times. and he's right. This movie takes all the elements the series was... (serious, funny, action, fantasy) and mixes it into one giant movie. Including the Shatner like fist fight. Loved it.Dialogue from Simon Pegg and Doug Jung was absolutely natural to the characters and everyone had their moments. The scenes of different characters sharing moments with each other was great.New characters Jayla is terrific. Sofia was great in the part. It's sort of a typical Justin Lin movie too as in the set pieces, action scenes fx were simply amazing... breathless... the character moments fantastic, warm, sweet... the story was very good but some holes and confusion at times but it's so worth having that for the pure fun this is.
__label__8 I had very little expectations on this film but I really liked it.Maybe its because it has no lens flare and the shaky cam actually works.It seems the characters have "aged" well, Kirk seems more mature and Spock seems to genuinely care about Uhura.Jaydah eclipses Uhura as the female lead, she has much more screen time and action sequences. Bones is so much better than the previous films. He manages to bond both with Kirk and Spock, it doesn't feel fake or forced like in the past 2 films.I didn't like the "Sulu is Gay" scene. I really doesn't add anything to the story. Why are his partner and daughter in the Starbase in the first place? Besides, it looks like everyone already knew about it. Even George Takei didn't like it.Krall feels more like Khan (from ST WoK) than John Harrison/Khan (from Into Darkness) . He was stranded on a desert planet, he blames the federation for it and wants revenge. But even so, I think Idris Elba did a good job, its clear Krall has a personal agenda, not just "destroy the federation" BTW Krall reminded me of Jerry from Enemy mine. Just saying.The Spock prime scene was touching, but they missed to mention how he died. Again no biggie.It was kind of weird having Scotty be the ladies man (sort of) and not Kirk, but it kind of worked.The action scenes are good, no lens flare and a little bit of shaky cam (no where near Bourne levels), a couple of scenes suffer from bad CGI but for the most part it gets the job done.In the end I think its be best of the trilogy, lets see what the next installment will bring.I wonder how will they deal with Anton Yelchin's death. Will they kill the character? or replace him?
__label__8 Just got back from a special sneak peek/advance screening of this movie, and I must say, Pixar continues to amaze. They just can't seem to make a bad move. Heck, they can't even make a mediocre movie. Now, I will admit, there have been a couple that I would classify as my "least favorite" of theirs, but even they were actually very, very good. This one, though...it just may take the cake. Ranks up there with the absolute best they have produced. Hysterical, emotional, meaningful -- this movie succeeds on every front! I am not going to get into spoilers or specific plot aspects, but I will say that I am almost definitely going to see this one again in the theater..and it will be worth every dime. Come Friday, be in line to see Wall-E. You don't want to miss it!
__label__8 Robots falling in love. There is a lot to like about the new Pixar film Wall-E. The animation goes without sayingbetter than anything out there. The glares, the environments, everything is rendered spectacularly, right down to the flame of a Zippo lighter. As for the story, leave it to these wizards for creating a tale that hits on a gut level, letting our simplest emotions come to the surface in order speak to our hearts and souls. With fewer words than Arnold Swartzenegger had to speak in Terminator 2, this movie relies on its visuals and on the movements and actions of the characters. It is appropriate that we are shown clips from older musicals to show humanity before Earth was abandoned. If we harken back to them for the joys of people, why not go to silent era style in order to portray communication between beings that cannot speak? Wall-E, his crush EVE, and all the other robots involved can say little than their name, however, we understand exactly what they mean throughout. The entire film speaks on a level that most people might have forgotten. In an age of Hollywood spoon-feeding the masses by having actors preach the obvious, Pixar has shown their originality again by getting an audience to partake in a film that makes them pay attention and work a little; something that the message of the piece is trying to have come across for humanity in general.I credit the filmmakers for showcasing a world that has been left unlivable due to pollution and excess, yet never stooping to the level of liberal propaganda to soapbox an environmental agenda. No, the idea of "going green" or "stop global warming" never comes out blatantly, but instead we are shown the message of how technology is making us gluttons and sloths, reliant for everything and unable to even see what is going on right in front of our faces. Humanity, drifting on a space station for 700 years being waited on hand and foot, has become a giant mass of inactive waste. Watching their awakening at the hands of a little waste removal machine, seeing love, life, and beauty as if for the first time ever is a wonderful thing. Sure the homage to 2001: A Space Odyssey is fantastic, but these moments work on another level altogetherthat of truth. Consumer culture and materialism has destroyed our society to the point that social status depends on the car you drive and the trinkets you can collect rather than the job you do and the work you put in. To see the Captain of the vessel, housing what has become of the human race, slowly open his eyes to what could be is mind-blowingly simple, yet also so necessary for children these days to see what burying their heads in the computer and cell phone is doing to the societal structure of the world. We need to stop being lemmings, droning along without purpose. There is a reason for life, things to strive for and love is one of them, something very prevalent here.The robots themselves become more human than the humans, showing the emotion and compassion that people have left by the wayside. Curiosity takes center stage as Wall-E finds treasures amongst the trash he has been programmed to clean up for a return of life to Earth. Stacking his compacted boxes of refuse into skyscrapers taller than those left behind, he finds shelter in an abandoned tractor where he keeps spare parts and objects to play with during his solitude. Never expecting a visitor, or the impact that finding a small sapling of greenery could cause, a sophisticated robot named EVE arrives and changes his world forever. Not only does she become the woman of his dreams, but she also causes him to leave Earth and discover the spaceship, which has been trying to find his home for way too long.Maybe it is funny to say, but the chemistry between these two machines is quite palpable and real, as they discover feelings that they shouldn't have due to programming and such, but they have evolved into sentient creatures. They fight for freedom against the spaceship's auto-pilot and take a stand to end the tyranny that has been subtly and effectively beating the humans into submission. Of course they may not be doing it for the humans per se, there is a matter of needing to go back for spare parts, but you'll understand once you see. Sure the Captain does his part to see the hero that Wall-E becomes to his stagnant race and being voiced by the hilarious Jeff Garlin definitely helps. When he starts viewing the history of Earth and just exudes wonderment and joy, you really enjoy the ride as he attempts to reverse his sloth and actually stand on his two legs for possibly the first time ever.Where I do have a problem with the film is the pacing. Yes, I know there is very little dialogueand I whole-heartedly praise the film for itbut the beginning does have a tendency to drag. Maybe some of that has to do with it being an extended version of the trailer, but it just gets a little tedious as we wait for EVE to arrive and end the cute monotony of Wall-E playing with his finds in ways they aren't supposed to be used for, we've seen it before in The Little Mermaid. Even once they are on the ship, the cat and mouse game gets a little prolonged to pad the runtime a bit. The story here isn't very complex and I just wish there had been more to it, or at least a bit faster paced of a plot progression. Otherwise, though, this is another solid film from Pixar, showing that they definitely have the creativity and storytelling ability to infuse heart back into cinema and try new things rather than regurgitate for a big paycheck.
__label__8 I thought this movie was actually good. It was everything I expected it to be,funny and full of intense action. I do not understand why people are hating on this wonderful film, but the jokes I guess could be said that they have been done before. Either way the whole audience was laughing in the theater I went too. It deserves be watched.Jackie Chan's fights were cool too. His fights fall short compared to other the movies he has done, but for a movie like this they are considerably good. I thought the story was pretty basic though, but I didn't go in expecting an epic movie like Lord of the Rings, Star Wars, etc. I went to laugh and i did. Chris tucker just kinda does the same thing like the movie. But isn't that why we love Rush Hour?
__label__8 The Chinese Triads have a secret to keep n Jackie and Tucker sets out to Paris to find what the secret is. This forms the pin-point juncture of the movie surrounding which the plot revolves. Fun Packed, with a large chunk of recycled jokes with too little of Jackie Chan action , thats what I felt of the movie from a totally neutral perspective.But being a Jackie Chan fan that I am , the movie is an entertainer with loads of fun n chicks. Rush hour 3 evolves on predictable lines ,but still entertainment quotient remains pretty high throughout. The on screen chemistry between Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker is simply rocking . But for an avid Jackie fan like me nothing pains more than a movie , with him in the rolls and yet , not having the traditional breathtaking Jackie Stunts. But for a man aged 53 Jackie is still more fast , agile and flexible than most of his much younger co-stars. The last stunt atop the Eiffel tower was a masterstroke with Jackie and Tucker defying height and gravity to put up a creditable show .But yeah, the movie ought to be a disappointment for those who expected a still young, reckless and crazy Jackie running around and kicking arse of the do-no-gooders. There is less of the traditional slap stick comedy that one associates with Jackie Chan movies. On the whole, a must watch for Jackie fans with a very high quotient of entertainment value .
__label__8 I read that this film has been labeled by parents as a "Disney Bomb" because it's too scary for their young children. Parents who take kids to see any movie need to be aware of something: if it's rated PG there are likely going to be scenes that your six year old will not enjoy -- even if the name Disney is attached to it. The cutesy versions of A Christmas Carol (The Muppet Christmas Carol and Disney's own Mickey's Christmas Carol for example) have little in common with the classic, and sometimes very scary Charles Dickens story. The plot should be familiar to just about anyone who has been alive sometime during the past 150 years, and the fact that there are spirits (ghosts) in the story should also be a red flag to parents. Especially since two of them are downright frightening in just about any version of the story.The truth is that this is one of the most beautiful and faithful remakes of the Dickens classic. The dialogue is taken nearly word-for-word from the book, and the look and feel of the film brilliantly capture what you would imagine wintertime in London in the 19th century to be like. A few of the special effects are a bit over-the-top, but most work well and add enough pizazz for cynical modern-day audiences. The scenes featuring the Ghost of Christmas Present are worth the price of admission alone.Once every few months I'm dragged kicking and screaming to see a new film. I can't stand wasting my hard-earned dollar on the crap Hollywood throws at us these days, but every once in a while I'm pleasantly surprised and thoroughly enjoy a movie. This was definitely one of those rare times.
__label__8 After directing The Polar Express in 2004, Robert Zemeckis vowed to only make 3D movies using motion-capture technology from then on, never to return to traditional live action films again. What? How could he? Moviegoers everywhere were bemused at how the bloke who gave us Forrest Gump, the Back to the Future trilogy, Who Framed Roger Rabbit?, Contact and Cast Away could settle for some silly 3D business. Perhaps Zemeckis was smarter than us all though, his pledge to developing a decent 3D output coming half a decade earlier than most. It seems he was on to something.It is credit to Zemeckis though that his use of 3D isn't the drawcard for this wonderfully told fable, it purely enhances it. The opening title sequence is one of the most breathtaking of the year, as we soar over - and through - the old Victorian town in which Scrooge inhabits in only one shot. It doesn't end there however, with no less than two more flying scenes and a splendid chase sequence on foot, which capably show what mo-cap and 3D are capable of. One small gripe, as was present with Up, the glasses still make everything darker and subsequently duller; especially as this picture is intentionally not well-lit to begin with.We all know the famous Charles Dickens novel for which this is based on and Zemeckis stays faithfully close to it, unworried about making a family movie that has very few laughs. Let's face it, the story of Scrooge isn't meant to be a light-hearted laughfest. With demonic horses (complete with glaring red eyes), ghosts with broken jaws and men withering away to a skeleton, this is anything but a hoot. But is that a bad thing? Not at all. In fact it is a relief to see a movie for young (but not too young) and old that doesn't shy away from evoking feelings of fear and regret rather than always sugar-coating them with funny moments. If dealt with rightly, emotions like these can be healthy and will have a longer lasting effect on you and your kids than something that only makes you laugh.Providing the voice of Scrooge from childhood to old-age, along with the three Ghosts of Christmas, Carrey does a fine job, even with his normal over-the-top voicing toned down a few hundred decibels. He is barely recognisable in all his parts - a result that I'm sure Zemeckis would have been aiming for - which allows the characters to stand on their own two feet rather than be a typical Carrey product. The experienced supporting cast of Oldman, Hoskins, Firth, Elwes and Wright Penn add a nice level of class to the proceedings.The dark and morose atmosphere might at first shock, but ultimately both children and adults will gain more from this experience than most family films. See it on the big screen.4 out of 5 (1 - Rubbish, 2 - Ordinary, 3 - Good, 4 - Excellent, 5 - Classic)
__label__8 A Christmas Carol was very entertaining and the animation was superb. You must see it in 3D! However, kids who go and see this movie probably won't understand the majority of the dialogue and will probably get lost. It has a lot of adult situations and the accents are pretty thick as well. Also, don't let the PG rating fool you. It's actually quite mature and in my opinion it's more suited for adults than kids as far as the dialogue and story goes. I think both kids and adults will love the animation and have a lot of fun - especially in 3D! Unfortunately, that might be the only thing the kids will like...Nonetheless, it's a great film and it's definitely Oscar worthy for the animation. I'll definitely be seeing it again in theaters and in 3D!
__label__8 This film is basically a mash-up of Dune, John Carter and Doctor Who (and quite a few others). And a very well made and hugely entertaining mash-up at that. I enjoyed it. Not a classic of the genre but very entertaining - although I can understand some people getting upset at not being able to follow the somewhat demanding, fast paced, multi-level story, whispered dialogue, and unconventional narrative. I especially liked the neat blend of science fiction and fantasy and the nice fairy tale vibe. I loved those dragons. I enjoyed it about as much as I enjoyed Blade Runner and The Fifth Element. It certainly does not deserve some of the ridiculously negative reviews that I have seen. Which just goes to show it is all a question of personal taste I suppose.
__label__8 I enjoyed this. I liked the script even with the really silly parts (ie Jupe and the bees). The acting was really well done. It felt kinda like watching a comic book. I love comic books so, that's not a diss. I read some of the "goofs" and such and a lot of them can be explained away. As my late father use to tell people, "Just watch the movie and shut up".Now. Jupe (Jupiter). I love her. I love her more as a female action hero because she's more down to Earth...get it? Down to Earth? Anyway, most action heroines are either super strong, super smart, super fast, etc. Jupe is just human. She ain't got none of that. She makes stupid human mistakes. She's a smartass like a regular human. She defiant. She can't really fight, but she can slap around a bad guy who can't fight either. She's smart enough to duck when somebody is shooting laser beams at her. She's not taking heels when she should be taking sneakers. And most of all, she knows where to put her knee when a guy puts her in a choke hold. That's awesome. Caine. Caine is hunky. The end. He's half man, half wolf and has prosthetic wings. He can kick butt, too. What the heck do you have to think about?Her Earthly family is hilarious. Her Reoccurrence family is hilarious too, just in a "they're all nutcases" sort of way.I like the action. I like the storyline. I wish I could find out what happens after as I'm sure there should be others that want to nimble on the Earth.You should watch it.
__label__8 'Jupiter Ascending' was panned (I suspect) by the same small brains that only love to slag by comparison. I'm thinking of "Kings Solomon's Mines" in the shadow of "Raiders". I'm thinking of "Fifth Element" being compared to 'Star Wars'. I'm thinking "new Batman" to "old Batman". And on, and on. Well, a fickle fie on that that. "Jupiter Ascending" is fun, is spectacular, and is in no way sillier than the original 'Star Wars' (as in episode IV). Yes, the gravity- surfing boots were hokey, but no more than light sabers or (Oh) The Voice of Obi from Beyond.I mean, and flipping' heck! Does everything in cinema have to be mean and retro and grungy and full of old failing and aging superheroes with bad knees and depression? This all getting so tired so fast.I loved this film precisely because it was full of meaningless gloss, and bless the Matrix Guys for not making another self-referential piece of pablum. It's fun. It's stupid. It has nothing to tell us about the meaning of life.It's not Deep, Portentous and Meaningful tripe like 'Avatar' and 'After Earth'. Thank goodness!'Jupiter Ascending' is A-grade Space Opera and let's just leave it at that. Get a life, critics.
__label__8 Jupiter Ascending, quite literally, is one of the most beautiful movies I have ever seen. The visual effects and CGI were top notch; nothing looked unfinished. Everything from explosions and action scenes, to space ships and settings, this movie had all the "eye candy" one could want. The fighting sequences were executed perfectly; each one thrilling in its own way. Each singular planet or world was so stunning and precisely crafted, that one could almost feel themselves in it. The Wachowskis have made a truly gorgeous universe in their latest movie. Michael Giacchino's music fits each scene very nicely whether it is a fast paced chase scene, or a quiet and thoughtful scene. It has a mysterious and almost hollow beauty to it, which fits this movie perfectly.Alas, not everything in this movie is as good as the visuals. Channing Tatum and Mila Kunis give surprisingly good performances for the most part but some of their acting is just off. The other principal actors give good performances as well but all the acting could have been taken a notch higher. Story and Plot is where this movie is weakest though. It has so much ambition and intricacy that it is to much to fit in a two hour long movie. Even though two hours is a good length, the plot just wants to keep on going and therefor the loose ends are never quite tied up. The plot is never really explained to its entirety and while one can figure out the general idea, it is hard to go deep into it. It has huge potential but rather than using it, it discards it. I give it credit for being fairly original though, and not a sequel, reboot, or based of a graphic novel or book. Originality is a great thing and the Wachowskis do it best. Overall Jupiter Ascending lacked plot depth and great acting abilities, but it won it all back with groundbreaking visuals. Even though many more big movies are coming out in 2015, this one would be one of the best for all we know. It may not be everyone's piece of cake, but it sure is a fun sci-fi adventure that shouldn't be forgotten.
__label__8 When I was a little girl, I often played at being a princess: I would be very beautiful, have lots of suitors and live in a gorgeous castle. I would also be very clever (I would often invent the elevator) and a good ruler for my subjects. I would then fall in love with a chivalrous young man who had faced a great danger for me, like dragons, evil sorcerers or highwaymen.I am a grown woman now, but somewhere inside me this little girl is still there. And she loved "Jupiter Ascending".This isn't a movie to watch for its philosophical message (even if there is one) or for its social commentary (even if you could find one). This is a movie to watch and be immersed in a whole new world, be amazed by its beautiful landscapes, architecture, costumes, and by its cool gadgets (seriously, who wouldn't want flying boots like Caine's?) and spaceships. This is a film to watch and indulge in your craziest childhood fantasies, like flying, going to another planet, being queen of the universe, you name it, and to be entertained. If this world created by the Wachowskis is so immersive, it's not only because it's well thought and beautifully designed, but also thanks to the cast. In this review, I would like to single out two performances. Mila Kunis plays the lead, Jupiter Jones, an underprivileged girl who dreams of a better life. Kunis, with her good looks, could have seemed fake in this role, but no, she is credible and very relatable (and this is important, since she also is the audience surrogate). One common criticism of the film is that she's too passive. It isn't completely fair. Jupiter isn't an action hero, but an everywoman catapulted in a foreign world, forced to play a game without knowing all the rules. But she learns quickly and grows as a woman throughout the movie. The most unfairly criticized performance from this movie is Eddie Redmayne's, playing the villainous Balem Abrasax. It's true that his performance is over-the-top, but this is because he plays an over- the-top character. Balem is a thousands-years-old power-mad psychopath who combines an unhinged mind with a complete lack of morals, and Redmayne portrays him very well. The rest of the cast is great, too. Every character seems real, even the ones we don't know much about. "Jupiter Ascending" also has good moments of humor and knows when not to take itself too seriously. This is all "make-believe" after all. The only regret I have towards this movie is that it's standalone. I would have loved to explore more of this universe and its characters in a sequel.
__label__8 The story of Tarzan is more a tragedy in today's world. It is a sad time where we rape nature, destroy balance and revel in our destruction. When I used to read ERB's books, it did transport me to fantasy land. A land where everything was in harmony. In balance. In sync. Where the circle of life was complete. This movie, did remind me of our rapacious nature. It signaled the unstoppable nature of human appetite for destruction. But as a standalone move, it could have been better.I read somewhere in trivia that Tarzan was a superhero. Well, not exactly with super powers, but definitely super human. He was supposed to have these extraordinary capabilities. He had been able to even defeat the great apes. The story teller or the director may have wanted to show the vulnerable or weaker side of him, but to me that was not Tarzan. For him to be defeated physically, his foe would have had to also been subject to character development. Tarzan is a character that is meant to challenge our physicality. If it were intelligence, I would go for, off the top of my head, 12 Angry Men, JRRT's LOTR and Peter Jackson for imagination, Star Wars for effects. I would have really liked to see Tarzan fighting and winning physical fights. At the end of the day, Tarzan won. Simply because of his brute force in the sensitive universe of Africa. Not politicking. I hope the next story stays in the glorious fantasy world of ERB and brings out the physicality of Tarzan with a poignant touch. We don't really need realism here, but brutality. I want to see magnificent fighting. I want a contrast of nature with our modernity. I want the star of the movie to be Nature, her beauty and what might have been. PS. It may have been interesting to see why Tarzan transitioned from nudity to loin cloth/pants!
__label__8 I am really surprised at the mediocre reviews so far of this film. Honestly when I first heard about the film I had little interest in seeing it, but the trailer was better than I expected, and when has Christoph Waltz been anything short of terrific in every role he has played, but particularly when he is a bad guy. (Come to think of it has he ever been a good guy?) The whole cast is solid, and I really liked the historical setting concerning the Belgian King Leopold and his exploitation of the Congo. I found all the animals and the CGI to be surprisingly cheesy. Undoubtedly the weakest link in the film, but that factor did not subtract much from a constantly entertaining and solid story. Besides the cheesy CGI the rest of the film looked terrific. I would recommend to see it on the big screen. It will probably lose a lot on smaller screens. Good summer popcorn film.
__label__8 More and more lately I am discovering a disconnect between myself and the vast majority of movie critics. I have loved a lot of movies this year that they've hated, and that trend continues here with The Legend of Tarzan. As far as live-action interpretations of Tarzan go, this and Greystoke are the two champs, with The Legend of Tarzan edging out Greystoke by a teeny bit.The Legend of Tarzan is unique in that it's not an origin story. While the origins of Tarzan are explored in a few flashback scenes (reminding me a lot of Batman Begins), the movie is really about John Clayton, Lord of Greystoke (aka Tarzan's real name and title). Tarzan has been living in England with Jane for the past few years and has left the jungle behind him, but when he is asked to help expose a slavery ring in the Congo, he is drawn back to Africa.Harry Potter director, David Yates, manages to breathe new life into Tarzan thanks to the modern technological wizardry that CGI enables. The vast majority of this movie was all shot on sets in England, with pretty much all of the animals and African environments created by a computer. This sells the reality of the story, much in the same way that The Jungle Book did a few months back. Of course what really makes this movie resonant is not the craft on display, but the story between Tarzan and Jane.Alexander Skarsgard and Margot Robbie portray Tarzan and Jane in this movie, and they actually make you care about these two characters. Skarsgard plays Tarzan as a stoic gentleman trying not to be the animal he was raised to be, while Robbie portrays the feistiest Jane you've ever seen. Then there's the charisma and humor of Samuel L. Jackson as real-life historical figure, Dr. George Washington Williams, who joins Tarzan on his quest to save the Congo. Couple that with Christoph Waltz being Christoph Waltz as the bad guy, Leon Rom, and you've got a fun, emotionally resonant pulp adventure that Tarzan author, Edgar Rice Burroughs, would most likely be proud of.When it gets right down to it, don't listen to the critics on this one. Your enjoyment of The Legend of Tarzan all relies on how much you enjoy the idea of Tarzan in general. If you think Tarzan is hokey, then this movie probably isn't for you, but there is nothing wrong with the movie itself. The script is good, the movie is well directed, the cinematography and musical score are beautiful, and there are many well choreographed action sequences. The bottom line is, if you have an affinity for the character, The Legend of Tarzan is the Tarzan movie you've been looking for.I give The Legend of Tarzan an 8 out of 10!
__label__8 I recently read (or re-read) about twenty of the original Tarzan books. I always wondered why we never saw a Tarzan movie that portrayed the character as he was written in the books.In the books, the adult Tarzan was very well educated and spoke several languages, but in the movies he hardly knew any English and rarely spoke in complete sentences. In The Legend of Tarzan, Alexander Skarsgård plays the character much like I imagined him when I read the books. Tarzan's command of language is competent, and his interaction with other people is never awkward or stilted as it had been in earlier movies.Some changes from the books that The Legend of Tarzan makes is the way Tarzan communicates with animals. Instead of using words (as in the books), Tarzan can read an elephant's eyes, and he calls crocodiles by mimicking a mating call. Another change is the removal of many of the more racist elements the books had in the depiction of African tribesmen, and they are not missed at all. One other element missing from the books is the science fiction or supernatural slant that several of the stories had. The Tarzan stories that had those elements were never my favorite ones anyway, so I don't mind that they are absent from this movie.One aspect of Jane's character that was often ignored in the earlier Tarzan movies, is that Jane lived in the USA before she married Tarzan. Earlier movie Janes were often given a British accent and occasionally had a pampered upbringing. It was refreshing to see Margot Robbie's take on the character. This Jane is American, and is feistier than we usually see her.Christoph Waltz and Samuel L. Jackson looked like they had a lot of fun in their roles. I enjoyed watching them, but it sort of seemed like they were there as "stunt" casting - nice but unnecessary. They were each good, but every time they appeared on the screen, I never really saw the characters they were playing, I saw the actors.Overall, I liked the movie. At times it was a little more "epic" than it needed to be, but I guess that just added to the fun. Of all the film versions of Tarzan I have seen, this one is my favorite. I think anyone who enjoyed the books would most likely agree that this is the closest to the book character of Tarzan that we have ever seen.
__label__8 To sum things up: I loved this movie.I had been waiting for it ever since it was announced, so of course I couldn't pass up the chance to see a press preview this morning. And, while there were some definite weaknesses (mostly in the quality of the animations), overall I was completely convinced. Naturally it did not coincide 100% with my own vision of Narnia visually, but emotionally it rang absolutely true, choking me up several times and really touching me. I walked out of the theatre with a warm, contented feeling - just like I feel every time I read C.S. Lewis' book! The stand-out performance was definitely Tilda Swinton's as the White Witch, but I liked all actors/voices, from cute little Lucy (newcomer Georgie Henley) to majestic Aslan (Liam Neeson). I thought the children did a great job, considering their relative inexperience and the amount of blue screen work involved.Tip: Stay seated through the actor credits - afterwards there's another small scene.
__label__8 After the massive success of LORD OF THE RINGS it would be only fitting to continue the exploration of other dimensions as created by equally talented authors, so when it was announced that C. S. Lewis' THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA: THE LION, THE WITCH AND THE WARDBROBE would be given the film treatment I was more than anxious to see what would come of it. Early screenings gave it great reviews, and when I viewed I wasn't disappointed despite the Christ references.Four children are sent away from their London home to a professor's estate in the countryside in order to escape the bombings from the Nazi invaders. What they find there, aside from a severe place not unlike what V. C. Andrews would depict in FLOWERS IN THE ATTIC, is a wardrobe that opens the doors to another world -- a parallel one if you may -- in which winter is ever present, but Christmas never takes place. This is Narnia, and it is under control of the White Witch Jadis who is aware of a prophecy that four humans will put an end to her wintry empire, and sets out her minions against the children who have entered her world while bribing one of them -- the rebellious Edmund -- to join her as she holds him prisoner much like the witch in Hansel and Gretel did. Her plans are to overthrow the Lion King, Aslan, and rule forever. Parallels to her world and the world as threatened by the Nazis are striking, and Tilda Swinton's transformation into the very Aryan looking Jadis is chilling, more so in her seductiveness. At times I was reminded of Cate Blanchett (they have very similar features), but I think Blanchett is to Galadriel as Swinton is to Jadis. Marvelous actresses both, but Swinton can claim her breakthrough with her role here.With much less gravitas than the LORD OF THE RINGS trilogy, THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA arrives much faster to its goal than the former does and the reason is that the books C. S. Lewis wrote are fairly slim volumes while J. R. R. Tolkien's book is a massive tome. Also, there is always the sense that the NARNIA books are more geared towards children and for much of the movie's duration there is little doubt that this is what it is: its four leads are children, many of the talking animals they meet are drawn in a way to appeal to children, and even the White Witch's castle has a storybook quality to it. Only in the appearance of Aslan does the story take a much more adult form, and its Messianic theme will not be lost on the older audience. Even so, the implications surrounding Aslan's self immolation can be interpreted in non-religious forms: if anything, it's also very similar to Gandalf's fall into the pit with the Balrog in tow in THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING. Both character's 'death' symbolize their own necessary transmogrification, only to arise more powerful than before and take their troops to victory.NARNIA is a visually stunning film even in its quiet moments when the children, one by one, are entering its world through the wardrobe. I was reminded of Stephen King's DARK TOWER series: unless the characters believed in the world behind the wardrobe, it didn't exist, and this is true here. Narnia only exists if you believe hard enough in it, and time, of course, stops... or let's say, it marches at a totally different beat, also visible in Stephen King's DARK TOWER series.Performances are quite remarkable, especially for a fantasy film. All of the actors doing the voice overs bring their characters to bubbling life, and Liam Neeson as Aslan is wise and all-knowing. The child actors are definitely comfortable in their roles and while I saw glimpses of the children of the aforementioned V. C. Andrews Gothic novel, they are real people: The younger ones fare better than the older ones, but then again they are on screen more and their stories are more crucial than the older ones although all four eventually converge into the climactic battle sequence.All in all a great film, equally meant to be enjoyed by children and adults alike, and one which should spawn a very interesting following.
__label__8 There is one scene in Andrew Adamson's new film THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA: THE LION, THE WITCH, AND THE WARDROBE, that for me walking into the theater that needed to be perfect. If not the whole movie and (the continued franchise of sequels) would fall flat on its face. If the film did not capture this scene I believe the heart and soul of C.S. Lewis and his magical world would have been completely destroyed.But I digress! Walking into Narnia is an interesting experience for me. In all honesty I find C.S. Lewis to be a great writer that I can hardly read. His books are hailed left and right and I just can't read them. It's not Lewis's fault. I realize it's my own media saturated thick head that blocks me up. So a few weeks ago after a screening of a 10 minute super trailer for NARNIA I decided to dust off my old copy of THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA and decided to give it a chance. I read the first two books in about a week and I wondered to myself. What was my problem? What took me so long to become enchanted by this mystical world? I've come to realize I cannot appreciate the classics. I really think that's my loss and something I intend to work on in the new year.So anyway, sitting down in the movie theater I psyched myself up I intended to be wowed. I wanted Narnia to come alive on screen like it did in my mind and I think it fell a little short of my expectations but in the end made me smile.NARNIA tells the story of four children. When the youngest named Lucy (Georgie Henley) finds a magic wardrobe that transports her into the magical land of Narnia. Narnia is a land of talking animals, magical fauns, and the evil White Witch (Tilda Swinton) whose enslaved the land causing it to be forever winter and never Christmas. Her sister Susan (Anna Popplewell), and brothers Peter (William Moseley), and Edmund (Skandar Keynes) don't believe her story. Until the day all the children enter the Land of Narnia. A land and get caught up in a war that may fulfill a prophecy that will bring peace to Narnia.NARNIA is a fascinating example of a film that doesn't exactly add up but in the end is satisfying. The screenplay is riddled with the problems from the very beginning. It tries so hard to stick to the book that the early moments of the film feel flat. Even when the children get to Narnia you feel the same way. Narnia feels just like the British Country side the children have come from. Narnia should feel different and it doesn't. Why is their a light post growing in the middle of the forest? Why are the animals talking? Why is it always winter and yet never Christmas? These questions should inspire awe. NARNIA should glow and jump off the screen, but the first act is to busy getting from point a to point b than to allow us to immerse ourselves in the NARNIAN landscape. If your like me you'll find yourself thinking "why does this feel like a third rate LORD OF THE RINGS?" I think what's missing is the thing that made the novel so enchanting. It's Lewis's self aware narration. Even when at the greatest peril it was Lewis's kind words and silly aside comments that lightened the situation. Admittedly that would be difficult in a film but It would have been nice if they'd tried. Instead they stuck humor in places that seemed out of place.But fear not, all is not lost. Because if you can get through the first hour (which really isn't that bad). You'll come out on the other side and into a much better and powerful movie. Once Aslan (voiced by Liam Neeson) the Mighty Lion comes on the screen you're in for the ride of your life.I mentioned earlier there is one scene that needed to be perfect or the film would be destroyed. That scene involves Aslan and the stone table. They got it right, and oh boy was I impressed. If Aslan is not strong, if Aslan is not seen as a threat even as he is being tormented this scene falls apart. But Adamson and his team make Aslan a character to be reckoned with. If you don't gasp as Aslan climbs those stairs and the beasts and the White Witch part the way for him, if you don't feel the pain and anguish of Aslan's torment, and if your tear ducts don't well up when the scene is over, I would doubt your humanity ( just a little.) After that the film only gets better, there is an awesome battle sequence, and even Narnia begins to take a life of its own. It gives each character their moment to shine and it wraps itself up neatly enough. After the film was over I can't wait for PRINCE CASPIAN (or THE HORSE AND HIS BOY) to hit the big screen.I would also like to single out little Georgie Henley (watch out Dakota Fanning) the little girl who plays Lucy. She gives the early part of the film a lot more life and fills the screen like very few child actors can. This little girl (in her debut role) has an innocence and yet a maturity that belies her age. This little girl gives a performance that should really net her an Oscar nod. It probably won't but if I didn't bring it up who would? While this film has a few rough spots and a first act that needed some work THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA: THE LION, THE WITCH, and THE WARDROBE is an enchanting journey that is worth the price of admission. Seek it out.
__label__8 Overall movie was great Although movie starts a bit slow and i was a little confused and bored but after that the movie finally starts catching up to the expectation.For me this was the best x-men movie because this movie has the best action sequences as compared to any other x-men movie with a great story and emotion(not as good as days of future past but who cares its a superhero movie) .and QUICKSILVER WASSS AWESOMEEEEE .I can literally watch the movie again just because of quicksilver.I never thought they could top the X-Men: Days of Future Past action(or comedy) scene but they did.Acting of all the cast members were awesome and James McAvoy,Michael Fassbender & Jennifer Lawrence knocked it out the park.I don't understand the critics , I never did.(sound's similar to superman's mom in BvS that was in the trailer :P)Movie the great and I can't wait to watch it again.
__label__8 I have just come out of the "Dark Curtain" Screening for The Dark Knight in Adelaide, and I'm blown away.Nolan's directing is sublime, the pacing of the movie was so well kept, managing to keep the audience enthralled in an almost 3 hour movie. There were several shots in the film that had me saying "Now how in the hell did they do that?!", Brilliant scores by James Newton Howard and Hans Zimmer. Every actor shines, no one person steals the film. I don't want to say much about it, because whatever is said cannot do it justice, there is enough hype surrounding it's release, but it's there for a reason. Top Notch film. Bravo to Nolan and his crew for giving a movie that Batman truly deserves.9/10.
__label__8 This was the most hyped movie of the year and probably one of the most hyped movies ever. Even with the overhype I had to see Heath Ledger play the joker because the trailers looked awesome. So I finally paid my ticket and watched the movie.The movie starts off really strong, the opening scene was an absolute blast (literally). From that point on though I didn't feel the same action. The rest of the movie just seemed, drawn out and completely over the top. Honestly where did the joker find a rocket launcher in Gotham City? This movie was just too long and much of the dialogue was something that a kid writes in senior creative writing and thinks it's brilliant. Also the director did an excellent job of warping the joker from one place to the next, the joker must have had a helicopter or a really loyal taxi driver. One second he's here and the next he's on top of that building. Probably the last straw was when Morgan Freeman showed up. He turns around and the camera is at a low angle as if to show the arrival of Morgan Freeman the ultimate modern narrator who is now in every movie, an older version of Samuel L Jackson who is soft spoken. They kind of made up for it when Debo from Friday showed up as the scary convict on the boat.After sitting in my seat for two and half hours as characters appeared and disappeared the movie finally ended, and it ended in a very cliché way. Way to say the title of the movie as the last word in the film, thats never been done ever?and The Dark Knight had to include the bain of every modern movie, being able to track people's cell phone calls. This little gimmick is in way too many movie these days.so ya I sat there for two and a half house and my butt really hurt, I wasted ten dollars on a cool movie, but one that wasn't as good as people claimed. Maybe next time Christian Bale will take some cough drops before showing up on set.
__label__8 ** PLOT SPOILERS EVERYWHERE ** Christopher Nolan's "The Dark Knight" is one of the better films in the history of its genre, however, it does not qualify as a masterpiece. In fact, it's quite far from such a distinction. It falls short of unquestionable excellence because of a ridiculously high number of plot holes, most of which regard The Joker and his criminal exploits.It is a given that Heath Ledger's portrayal of The Joker leaves us with a character who is thoughtful, unpredictable, ruthless, unrelenting, and arguably insane. That is to say, some inconsistencies in the villain should be accepted, if not embraced. But others, to be frank, are unacceptable because of their stupidity. For example: In the film's opening sequence, a clever bank heist spearheaded by The Joker, the crazed clown kills off his partners as the caper progresses. At the time, it made sense. Pretty simple, the more colleagues he kills off, the more money that leaves for him. But later on in the film, The Joker burns his half of the criminal underworld's combined fortune. He makes it overtly clear that he is not motivated by money. Not in the least bit.So why was the money a factor in the opening scene? It shouldn't have been. Uneven scripting there.But that's nitpicking in comparison to the film's greater faults. The ultimate reason why "The Dark Knight" falls short of the masterpiece label is because there is absolutely no way, under any circumstances, at any time, on any planet or in any solar system, that The Joker could execute so many complex plans in such a short period of time.OK, here is where people start saying: "But it's a movie! It doesn't have to be possible." I know, thanks. I agree, it doesn't have to be possible. But, and this is a huge BUT, a film as ambitious and lengthy as "The Dark Knight" wants to be taken seriously. Not only does it want to be taken seriously, I think director Christopher Nolan wants Oscar consideration for the work he has put in here, and cast members have been saying regularly that they don't want this to be considered as a mere "superhero movie," or "action movie." Well if you want to elevate to the level of serious drama, then you have to explain a few things to me.(1) How does The Joker continue to find willing participants in his escapades when all of his previous crew members end up dead or in jail? The guys he's finding to work for him have to be true idiots. Totally brainless. And that doesn't work because The Joker's plans are meticulous and require precise timing and execution. If these goons are dumb enough to work for him, they aren't smart enough to be effective as help. It's a perpetual contradiction throughout the film, particularly the second act.(2) Sure The Joker is swift and tricky, but c'mon, he doesn't exactly look like a normal citizen. If city-wide security has been heightened to a level never before seen, how the hell is this maniac with a painted face and wacky hair not being spotted? Does he have an invisible transportation machine or something? He doesn't have supernatural powers, so he shouldn't have a supernatural aura.(3) When did he have the time to wire the hospital with bombs? Even if one of his goons did it, how did no one in the hospital notice suspicious activity? What about the assassination attempt on the Mayor? The other cops on the firing line didn't notice the most infamous villain in the city standing right next to them? Why? Because he crouched over a little and tried not to make eye contact with them? Please. I could go on for days, too many plot liberties were taken.I'd actually like to discuss the performances a bit. I think the separation between the strongest part and the rest of the cast is the largest ever with an ensemble of this size and magnitude. Meaning, Heath Ledger's performance was far and away the best in this film, better to the point where it bothered me that no one else was in his realm. The scenes where Ledger was off screen lacked the magnetism and intrigue of the ones in which he appeared. Although appeared is probably not the best word, more like dominated. Christian Bale was OK as Batman, but he's almost too stoic for a character with such strong morals and opinions. He's also a little bit stiff when he's in playboy mode as Bruce Wayne. I think his performance in "The Prestige" was more emotional, effective, and polished.Aaron Eckhart was all right as Harvey Dent/Two-Face, but the problem was that the vast majority of the time I was seeing Eckhart on screen, not Dent. The same Eckhart we saw in "Thank You For Smoking." Also, a man with a finely tuned social philosophy, like Dent, would not totally flip his ideology after the loss of a close loved one. Hopefully the angle is that the toxin causing the disfigurement messed more with his brain than we were led on to believe.Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman were believable as always, but of course they are underused as Alfred and Lucius Fox. Gary Oldman probably contributed the second strongest performance in the film as Commissioner Gordon, and Maggie Gyllenhaal (as Rachel Dawes) was a step up from Katie Holmes as far as execution and timing -- but that's not saying much. I really could go on for days about the unacceptable plot liberties, but I'll spare you. All in all, I liked the film because it had some thought-provoking sequences involving moral dilemmas and intriguing societal questions, and in having such "The Dark Knight" succeeded in escaping the "superhero movie" label. But it's not a masterpiece.Plain and simply, it has too many holes.
__label__8 "Up" is a winner, and I couldn't be less surprised. Anyone still putting a limit on how new and inventive they think a Pixar film can be deserves to have their socks blown off. For the rest of us, just buy a ticket and expect to be taken away. This new flick is the work of writers/directors Pete Docter and Bob Peterson, two guys who have each been around the making of Pixar flicks before. Docter was a director on "Monsters Inc", a writer on "Toy Story" and a co-writer and director on "Wall*E." Peterson was a writer on "Finding Nemo". Both know the guidelines for success and while "Up" doesn't reach the heights of say a "Wall*E" or a "Toy Story", it's still a fantastic movie because, well, I don't think the people Pixar hires know how to make anything other than fantastic movies.This one is about Carl Fredericksen (Edward Asner), a 78-year old retired balloon salesman living alone in a house full of old memories. Carl and his wife Ellie met each other as young children, both enamored by the newsreels about adventurer Charles Muntz (Christopher Plummer). They eventually married and planned on seeing the world together, especially Paradise Falls in South America, but life kept getting in the way and before he knew it, Ellie died.As the world changes, Carl refuses to change with it. When developers threaten to move him out of his house and into a retirement home, the old codger rigs his house up with thousands of balloons and before you can say "way to go Carl", he floats away, determined to have the adventure he and his wife never had. He doesn't plan on taking 8-year old chubby wilderness explorer Russell (Jordan Nagai) with him or crash landing on the other side of Paradise Falls, or finding an exotic female snipe (that Russell names Kevin) or a group of talking dogs (one named Dug befriends them) tracking down the bird for Muntz, who it turns out is a sinister villain, but things kinda turn out that way.You're grabbed instantly. The adorable opening montage of the Carl and Ellie love story is more endearing and moving in its dialogue-less 10-minute entirety than any other romance this year by a long shot. This is another Pixar flick that goes in a daring direction. We next see Carl as a heartbreaking old man, his wife dead and the world no longer needing him. You forgive him his bitterness and you love him for the sentimental streak he has towards the things he and his wife shared together. His crabbiness is a little funny but there are also some heavy scenes early on as well. It sets up a beautiful, multi-layered story about enduring love and learning to live life without limits.When a thrilling rainstorm crashes Carl and Russell on the other side of Paradise Falls, the two must each harness themselves to the house floating above them. The characters each look terrific and share a good chemistry. Russell is the usual 8-year old kid, talkative, inquisitive, and annoyingly overeager. He is a good comic foil to crabby Carl, his big, rosey smile and plump round stature a counter to the stout, frowningly square-faced Carl. As the two spend more time together, a wonderfully written friendship develops.The movie is full of visual gags and the talking dog-henchmen are great fun. Muntz, an adventurer who travels around the world in a big blimp, offers a menacingly evil villain to chase Carl and Russell through rough mountainous terrain before the exciting final house vs. blimp in-air showdown. Plus the movie looks fantastic, a lush array of candy color and grand scenery. And the vocal cast, from Edward Asner to Christopher Plummer and Jordan Nagai each deftly voice their roles. "Up" is one of the year's rare treasures, a movie that flies in every way possible and from Pixar, you shouldn't expect anything less.
__label__8 In my attempt to rewatch all the MCU-movies chronologically I began with the first Iron Man. To cut to the chase: it's still good. A couple of things astonished me, though:First of all, a common mistake of the later Marvel-movies isn't made here. There is actually some sort of character development visible. Tony ends the movie as a totally different person. Of course, in an origin story it's easier to have your protagonist change but let's compare for a second: 
Is Ant-man really a changed man at the end of the movie? What about Star Lord? What about Thor? Black Widow? Hawkeye?Then again, you have to give it to the director that he really made a well-paced, well-balanced movie. There is action, humour, drama, world establishing, all in great balance. The final fight isn't stretched too long and therefore doesn't get boring. You can't underestimate this in our age of 45 mins battles at the end of movies.During my re-watch I also noticed how 'down to earth' this movie is if you compare it to some of the more recent MCU-entries. It just looks more real than them. It's set in a world that at least COULD be real which makes us care more for the characters and their actions. More explosions and obvious cgi-effects don't improve a movie. So the movie doesn't feel as bloated as some other superhero flicks.Finally, Iron Man is still fun to watch and not just a vehicle to set up a franchise. If you've spent the last couple of years on the moon and haven't seen any of the MCU-movies, give this a try.
__label__8 So the world premier of Iron man to regular movie going audiences happened to be here in Seoul Korea on an army installation. I got to check it out and I was delightfully surprised.Much against the hype, I thought this movie would have been torrid trash acting mingled with cheesy fight scenes. I mean Robert Downey Jr as an action superhero? But I am glad to admit that I misjudged the movie completely. Downey played a very good Tony Stark, in generally every way. From his jokes to his obnoxious lifestyle he looked and walked the part very well. His banter with his right hand assistant Ms. Pepper Potts isn't mind numbing and actually found myself laughing aloud at some of the wit.The movie itself moved at a very good pace. Mixing action, comedy and some drama to just about the right proportions. As with most superhero movies, its rather predictable, but in all the right ways you'd want a superhero movie to be. The animation used was almost seamless, and of course the Iron Man costume was kicking major ass.My only gripe with the movie was the fact that several characters were thrown into the mix with little behind them other than 2D character attributes. Leslie Bibb's character, Christine Everhart, is pretty useless other than the two or three lines she has. Hardly worth a hardbody like Leslie Bibb to play. Several other characters didn't feel fleshed out at all. Raza (Faran Tahir), Obediah Stone (Jeff Bridges) , and even Jim Rhodes (Terrence Howard) feel hollow in the fact that they have little justification for many of their actions.So All in all, I'd give this movie an 8.3. Fun for the whole family, great pacing, and a Superhero movie to give the next Batman movie a run for its money.
__label__8 There was a big question mark looming over the theatrical adaptation of Marvel's Iron Man property. It was in the guise of director Jon Favreau. Now, don't get me wrong, I love the Favs, but when I heard he was helming a big budget comic book flicklet's just say I was a little worried. Once his cast was set and the fanboys started humming across the internet I started to ease into the decision with high anticipation. Thankfully, after finally seeing the finished product, I was not disappointed in the least. With a great mix of the professionalism and stakes seen in both Spider-Man and X-Men and the comic wit and sheer fun of Fantastic Four, Iron Man shows how a comic can be brought to the screen successfully without all the added drama and weight. We finally have a film with the essence of what makes these picture books so popular, the action and mythology along with a sense of adventure and humor. Favreau never bogs us down with overwrought emotions nor speaks down to us with gags and poorly written jokes. Instead he delivers on his promises and gives us a solid initiation into what could be a great trilogy or more.Favreau seems to have had an idea to get an origin story out while not boring us with long drawn out backstory. His ability to give us dual information at once is nicely orchestrated, showing Tony Stark in his basement creating while the TV in the background explains what is happening in the outside world of the Middle East and inside his own company. We as an audience are allowed to put the pieces together amidst the witty banter of Stark and the wonderful special effects. By the end of the film it is quite amazing how much information you will realize you now know, all culminating in a decent final battle, but more importantly a segue into the inevitable sequel. We are allowed entrance into the character evolution of Stark as he goes from war profiteer to man of action and cause, all while seeing the technology improve and advance before our eyes. Much like Batman, we have a hero here that needs help in fighting crime. He has no superhuman abilities besides his brain and being able to see his thoughts go from paper to reality is a feat of magic. Every stage is shown, every failure and success. It's quite the ride in and of itself, but when you add onto it the threat of global war and destruction, it can only get better.The real success here is in the bold move of casting an actor over-40 to be a superhero. This takes guts, because no matter how appropriate it is, most studios would have said, "no, change the story and make him younger so we can churn out as many of these babies as we can." I don't know how he did it, but Favreau got Marvel to get Robert Downey Jr. to play Stark, a sarcastic lothario with the brain capacity of Einstein. I truly can't think of anyone better suited to the role and he proves it by nailing every single scene. I'm sure there was some ad-libbing, but even if not, his comic delivery and ability to switch on a dime to a sincere seriousness at will shows his masterful craft.As for the rest of the cast, they all do well. Jeff Bridges plays the bombastic creature of villainy over-the-top, but appropriately so; Terrence Howard is nice as the friend and military liason, not given much to do, but definitely sowing seeds for the future; and Gwyneth Paltrow is good as the sweet assistant Pepper Potts who at times seems a little underwritten and more female prop than anything else, but comes through with some nice moments in a very comic sort of way. I also really liked Shaun Toub as Yinsen, Stark's savior, and Clark Gregg as the head of S.H.I.E.L.D. Good to see Favreau giving another actor turned director props, (Gregg's directorial debut comes out later this year in the form of Chuck Palahniuk's Choke). I just wish he would have shied away from putting himself in the film. It's one thing to be seen split-second, (like Stan Lee), but its another to give yourself a thankless role with multiple scenes, just adding fuel to the fire on people's opinions of egotism stemming from the drinking game created off of the TV show "Dinner for Five" and how many references to Swingers was made each episode. I'll forgive, though, because, once again, I'm a big fan.One can't forget that this is an action film above all else, so we can't just praise the actors; every effect is also quite brilliant. Those scenes of Iron Man flying amongst fighter jets in the trailer seemed really lame, but when in context they deliver. The suit itself is amazing as well, through every mach stage right to the end. My main highlight, however, was with the computer systems that Stark utilizes. The multiple screens, instant holographic reproductions, and ability to actually interact with those 3D representations is stunning. We can create them in fantasy, but it's just too bad we can't yet in real life.Now Iron Man is not a perfect film, nor even a perfect comic book adaptation. What it is, though, is a fun, comic actioner that should light up the box office. The final showdown is a bit of a whimper in comparison to the backstory and machine creation; a crucial element is saved from destruction in the one contrived bit of screen writing, (not quite utilized in the way I thought, although still for the same means); and some moments seem a tad campy rather than witty, but otherwise this is some topnotch cinema that should definitely be seen on the big screen. I can't wait to see how the story progresses in a couple years.
__label__8 From the first moment Robert Downey Jr comes on screen as Tony Stark, you know that this movie can't go wrong. We are in some desert in Afghanistan and wisecracking Stark tells something about his playboy life to some soldiers. Yes, this ain't no nerdy Peter Parker or tortured Wolverine. Our hero is a person who generally enjoys life (and women) and has no second thoughts on how he lives it. Without any doubt, of all the superheroes that exist, Tony Stark is the coolest person there is! But of course his bubble bursts when Stark is kidnapped by terrorists and forced to reproduce his killing missile, the Jericho. The sacrifice of a fellow scientist makes him humble and after his spectacular escape Stark decides to better his life. No more manufacturing of weapons for Stark Industries. From now on Stark wants to help his fellow men. Although this decision impresses some (like Stark's secretary Paltrow) it also infuriates others (like Stark's partner Jeff Bridges). This all leads to a action-packed finale in which Iron Man must face a deadly enemy...Iron Man is the big Robert Downey Jr. show. Downey not only brings humor and flamboyance to his role, he also manages to make you believe that an egocentric person can indeed change into a real humanitarian. The scene in which he realizes that someone is willing to make a sacrifice in order for him to escape is even a moving one. Well done. Downey is really a great actor with great charisma.But there is a lot more to Iron Man. There are four or five big action scenes. The first four are so great (the escape from the cave and a sequence involving an Afghan village) that the last one - the big finale - disappoints a little bit. But that's okay. There are also a lot of smaller scenes to be enjoyed, focusing on the relationship between Downey and Paltrow and the development of the Iron Man armour. Jeff Bridges is always great to look at, although his role could have been played by several other actors. Maybe his storyline is the weakest of the film. His betrayal is no surprise, but his early involvement in this is hard to believe. Iron Man is a spectacular and funny popcorn ride that not only has great action scenes, but also some great actors. Hopefully it will do very well at the box office, because I can't wait to see Iron Man 2. Enjoy!PS: no Samuel Jackson in this version either!8,5 out of 10
__label__8 Iron Man, the huge kick off to the big summer blockbusters of summer 2008, a great start. I have to say that originally I had my concerns, when I saw the trailer, this movie looked way over done and Robert Downy, Jr. as the hero? The guy is a great actor, but as a super hero? I wasn't so sure, but I was able to see Iron Man today and all my doubts were put behind me as I watched. This is one of best comic book adaptations put to film in a very long time, since the original Spider Man I think. The effects were not actually too over the top, only when needed, but it gave that extra feel of a comic book. Robert Downy, Jr., I couldn't believe how well of a performance he pulled off, there still is a little question of his casting, but he pulled off Tony Stark seamlessly. This is a very entertaining action film and is such a great blockbuster that is sure to please any film buff.Tony Stark, rich, handsome, incredibly wealthy, has it all. He also creates war weapons, when he goes to Afghanastan to introduce a new missile, he is captured and told to create the missile for the terrorists. But Tony has other plans, he creates a metal suit and escapes, he goes back home and announces that he wants to retire and close down Stark industries due to the violence he saw. But when he learns that the weapons of his are in the wrong hands, he realizes that maybe he could re-create a metal suit and become Iron Man, the incredible machine to save man kind.Iron Man is a sure fire hit that I'm sure you won't want to miss. It has everything you could want for a comic book film: action, humor, a great cast, romance, and ultimate effects that just get you excited. Even the soundtrack gets you pumped up and ready to root for Iron Man. The only complaint, as much as the action was cool, I wish it wasn't the war on terrorism they used, I know it's part of the story, but it hits so close, that it may seem inappropriate. The climax, a little cliff hanger, but I'm already smelling a sequel for next year probably. But Iron Man is a fun movie that all ages could enjoy, Iron Man is the new Spider Man for 2008! 8/10
__label__8 Tony Stark's life is the dream of any self-respecting man. He is incredibly rich, devilishly intelligent and in no less than superb degree is charming. He sleeps mostly with the girls who have been on the cover of Maxim, he drives exclusively on cars, under the hood of which there are not less horses than in the entire equestrian sport of any country, and the interview gives only sexy reporter, ready for a long, let's say a conversation before the first cocks. But one day, Tony's always sarcastic becomes a joke, he is taken prisoner by a group of Arab-terrorist appearance with the demand to "make us such a rocket" and subsequently - to kill. Stark and his companion in misfortune decide that to lose hope in general and stupid, and begin to build right before the eyes of nothing understanding the invaders best of Tony's evening suits.It is always pleasant, when transparent as glass, aphorisms find a clear confirmation in our lives. So it happened with the phrase "If you want to do something well, do it yourself." The company Marvel, which owns the rights to all at least some decent heroes of graphic novels, was tired of how famously Hollywood turns her intellectual property into a shame, and took absolutely the entire production process under her control. The Iron Man is the first swallow of this approach, and it should be noted that the swallow has come out so fat that under it branches break.The fact that the stars heavily winked at the project is noticeable already for the one who plays the main role. Downey Jr. in Hollywood is considered an eternal loser because Robert is more accustomed to look at the world from a bottled bottom or through a mirror powdered with white powder. To make such a person a titular face of a multimillion picture, which would be nice to justify the budget, the thing is extremely risky. That you had something to compare, I will say that the production of HF on his shoulders by Robert is akin to the appearance of Johnny Depp in the role of Jack Sparrow in one little-known picture. That is, this is when a good actor becomes also successful, and the viewer from this only wins. A more charming and charismatic Stark can not be imagined. Yes, and in his opponents he is not anyhow anybody, but similar to Lenin's grandfather Jeff Bridges, pushing his villainous speeches with frighteningly realistic notes in his voice. Well, any appearance on the screen of Gwyneth Paltrow should generally be celebrated at the state level - it is as usual so nice that I want to directly coat it with my coat and take it by the handle to some more cozy place than the screen of the cinema.As the adaptation of a picture book, the film is immaculate. The dose of humor, action and serious non-pseudo-paraphonic dialogues were always on good pharmacy scales, and 186 million of the budget allow you not to think much about the quality of special effects. Such falsities and unfriendly relations with logic usual in such pictures are completely absent. The general message of the film reads easily: "We had you, Hollywood," and the main indicator is the phrase that ends the film. As Dreamworks once sneered in their Shrek over Disney standards, so Marvel tramples everything that was done before in the field of the genre.
__label__8 Since its release, I've been confused why Martin Scorsese made this film. I knew very little about it of course, only that it was an adventure movie about an orphan boy living in the walls of a Paris train station. It certainly doesn't sound very Scorsese-like.However that is merely the framing for what is an ode to the earliest days of cinema, and in particular one of its true pioneers, Georges Melies. With references to "Arrival of a Train" – one of the world's first films by the Lumiere brothers, Melies's "A Trip to the Moon" and many others, this really is a treat for movie fans. Yes on a very basic level it is a children's movie, but really there's far more here for adults. Scorsese wonderfully juxtaposes his most technologically advanced film yet to demonstrate the genius and inventiveness of cinema in its earliest days. There are fine performances from the two children, as well as Ben Kingsley as Melies and Sasha Baron Cohen as a determined and love struck station inspector. I actually thought that Helen McCrory stole the show as Melies' wife Mama Jeanne. I never got to see Hugo in 3D, but the blu ray version looks truly sumptuous, with some breath taking imagery of early 20th century Paris. The film does tailor off significantly towards the end, with Scorsese seemingly unsure of what to do with the final act once the children had solved their mystery. What comes before is truly magical though and this film gets a big thumbs up from me.
__label__8 It has taken me a long time to get round to watching Hugo, but I am so glad that I did. This is a wonderful and simply glorious ode to early cinema told through the eyes of Hugo (Asa Butterfield), an orphan who after the death of his clockmaker father (Jude Law) ends up living in the walls of a Parisian train station charged with winding the station's numerous clocks.Hugo's only link back to his late father is through a majestic mechanical automaton, a sort of tin man which his father had been restoring in his spare time. As appears to be the way with all tin men this one is also missing a heart, but this time it is a heart shaped key which Hugo is convinced if he can find will unlock the secrets inside. This leads young Hugo on a dangerous but adventurous search which often lands him in the clutches of either the local shopkeeper (Ben Kingsley) or the Station Inspector (Sacha Baron Cohen). Help is at hand though from the shopkeeper's god daughter Isabelle (Chloe Grace Moretz) and as the two join forces they soon discover they have more in common than they thought.In Hugo, Scorsese has produced a truly magical tale which sucks the viewer into the screen via the innovative use of 3D so immersing us within the dynamics of Parisian life and the wonders that take place within the walls of the station. Butterfield is perfectly cast as young Hugo, a curious young boy determined to survive in a hard and cold world which constantly seems to deal him a bad hand; you simply can't help but love him. Moretz after a slightly shaky start soon finds her feet (and her accent), Kingsley is excellent, especially as the story develops and there is strength in depth from a top notch supporting cast including Emily Mortimer, Ray Winstone and Christopher Lee to name but a few.Hugo's strength however is in its story, which effortlessly unfolds in front of you with real grace and elegance. Scorsese's love for the history of his craft and his desire to share this tale of early cinema is evident in every frame. Whilst it may not be the most historically accurate portrayal of cinematic history it has a true and good heart which beautifully captures the essence of what is cinema.Some people have criticised Scorsese for creating a children's movie that is inaccessible for most children. I strongly disagree on this point. To me Hugo is a classic children's movie which works across all age spectrums, much in a similar vain to Spielberg's ET. In a world of Woody, Buzz, Jessie and meatballs that fall from the sky (which don't get me wrong are all fabulous in their own right), it is refreshing to see a children's movie of old. It feels like a magical Christmas movie to me, perfectly accessible and enjoyed by all.Hugo is fully deserving of the many accolades that it picked up during the awards season. It is a wonderful and engaging film which I will show my children when they are a little older and I am certain they will fall in love with cinema in the same way their father need did so many years ago.Review by Will Malone www.maloneonmovies.com
__label__8 Hugo (Asa Butterfield) is an orphan in Paris around 1930. His father (Jude Law) died in a tragic accident and several weeks ago, the lad's rather good-for-nothing uncle passed, too. Wanting to keep the news of his "home alone" status a secret, especially from a train station inspector (Sacha Baron Cohen), Hugo continues winding the large station clock, something his uncle was hired to do. Naturally, the young boy has resorted to being a pickpocket and a fruit snatcher to survive. Gifted mechanically, Hugo steals tools from a toy shop owner, Georges (Ben Kingsley) and, one day, is caught with a five finger discount. Very upset, the grouchy toyman takes away Hugo's prized notebook, a gift from his late dad. Terribly distraught, Hugo makes several attempts to reason with the old man. Fortunately, M. Georges has a ward, a girl named Isabelle, who is about Hugo's age. She wants to help Hugo in his endeavors. Well and good, thinks Hugo. But, M. Georges has many secrets, and the closer the young pair get to them, the angrier the toyshop owner becomes. He is even somehow connected to an automaton which Hugo's father was trying to restore. Also, although the Inspector has caught the admiration of a pretty flower seller (Emily Mortimer), he continues to haul young orphans off to institutions. What are the secrets of M. Georges? Will Hugo uncover them before he is caught in the inspector's net? First, this quite a beautiful film and such a change from Scorsese's last brilliant effort, Shutter Island. Although I was not fortunate enough to view the movie in 3-D, the scenery is breathtaking and the camera shots are equally so. Also, the cast is remarkable, with Kingsley, Butterfield, Mortimer, and particularly Cohen, enlivening the happenings. The story is also strong, especially its eventual glimpse into the world of silent cinema. Therefore, the film's weaknesses are its slow pace and far-from-sharp editing. Yes, Scorsese probably found it difficult to "slice away" beautiful images, but the flick would have benefited if he had. But, by no means should you skip Hugo. Its riches can be enjoyed by the entire family and everyone will bask in the bountiful imagery that is indeed, head turning.
__label__8 What Martin Scorcese has managed to do is add story dimensionality to a family film that has 3D technology. Some of the dimensions he's included which don't always make into Hollywood blockbusters are an imaginative and original concept, thematic unity and resonance and deft homage to film itself, in the story of Georges Méliès, French film pioneer.Saw the film in an advance screening and we were among the many there who were obviously not standard family film consumers. This being a Scorcese film is likely to bring lots of adults to Hugo and I would think many of them, like me, will feel the film stands up as entertainment for all age groups.I especially enjoyed the resonance and intricacy of the theme of clocks, clockworks, animatronics and "the ghost in the machine"--our fear, in the post industrial age that perhaps we are just a rather complex machine, rather than a divine creation. This is all beautifully rendered cinematically. I doubt the little ones will be bewildered while older viewers can pick out levels and layers in the film.Good fun and visually interesting throughout. The 3D is used in service of the story. I hope Hollywood is watching and notices that special effects are only special when they get the heart of the machine working, like Hugo's little man.
__label__8 The pic is a magic story with rip-snorting adventures , exciting fantasy , state-of-art FX , sensational scenarios and good feeling . Set in 1930s Paris, an orphan (Butterfield) who lives in the walls of a train station is wrapped up in an intrigue involving his late father (Jude Law) and an automaton , Hugo is tending to the station clocks during his uncle's (Ray Winstone) mysterious absence . Hugo's father was a watchmaker and he has inherited his father's talents for all things mechanical . During the early scene which introduces the interior of the train station , there are appearances by characters representing Django Reinhardt, James Joyce, and Winston Churchill . On his adventures , Hugo meets with a shopkeeper , George Melies (Ben Kingsley based his characterization of 'Georges Mèliès' on Martin Scorsese) who works in the train station , a nasty Inspector (Sacha Baron Cohen) , a librarian (Christopher Lee) and a beautiful woman (Emily Mortimer) who has a flower shop . Hugo befriends Melies's ward, Isabelle (Chloe Grace Moretz) , and together they have a lot of adventures , one that centers around Melies and wife (Helen McCrory) .One of the most legendary directors of our time , Martin Scorsese's first PG rated film in 18 years , takes you on an extraordinary adventure full of amusement and entertainment . This is an impressive production with awesome scenarios , groundbreaking set design and over-the-top 3D visual effects , being the first movie in this system directed by Martin Scorsese . The opening track shot of the city ending at the train station was the very first shot designed and it took one year to complete , it required 1000 computers to render each frame required for the shot . Brian Selznick book's imagination is brought to life with top-notch computer generator special effects . Marvelous performances by the entire casting as Butterfield as an orphan who lives in a Paris railway station, Grace Moretz as a likable little girl who befriends and helps Hugo and of course the great Ben Kingsley as the magician George Melies . It packs amazing fantasy , breathtaking adventures and overwhelming images that convey us a sense of wonder and surprise . Provides enough amusement to keep the hands on your seat and dazzling eyes until the moving ending . The film displays a colorful and evocative cinematography by Robert Richardson , winning the Oscar's cinematographic category for this film meaning that he and Vittorio Storaro are the only present living cinematographers to win the award 3 times . The picture pays tribute to George Melies , in fact in flashbacks we see Georges Méliès staging his productions with lavishly colored sets and costumes. As the real Méliès only used sets, costumes and make-up in grayscale, since colored elements might turn out the wrong shade of gray on black and white film , many of the prints were then hand tinted in post-production. Emotive and imaginative musical score by Howard Shore . This enjoyable story is lavishly produced by Johnny Depp , Barbara De Fina and the same Scorsese . This Martin Scorsese movie won the same number of Academy Awards as Scorsese's ¨The Aviator¨ totaling five . Both were nominated for Best Picture and Best Director Oscars but lost out. The film also won the same number of Oscars in the same year as ¨The Artist¨ , both films examined silent cinema . Rating : Very good , better than average . Essential and indispensable watching .
__label__8 Wow, there are a lot of bad votes for this movie here. I thought it was great. It's a Will Smith / Barry Sonnenfeld movie. You can't take it seriously. The humor is perfectly subtle and dry at times, and over the top at others. The storyline is only there to give opportunities for the jokes.If you want a serious western, try The Magnificent Seven (or the original, 7 Samurai), Hombre, or some other classic. If you want a light-hearted evening, rent this. Probably don't buy it, but rent it.For some reason it says that my review has to be more than 10 lines, so I'm throwing this in to make it work. Really a review for a movie like this doesn't need to be this long, but I guess I'll just comply.
__label__8 No, this Mummy doesn't come even close to topping the first one, but I would argue that it is as good or possibly even better than the second one. Yes, there are several things we can quibble about (Brendan Fraser's son looking as old as he does, abominable snowmen from out of nowhere, and a very ho-hum love story) but this movie was not made for the Oscars, people. It was made so that we could check our brains at the door and have fun, and the movie does deliver on that count.I really liked the idea of using the real-life terra cotta army as the basis for the story. Granted it's not historically accurate of course, but there is a lot of mystery associated with that tomb in China and I feel that if you want to make a $175 million summer popcorn flick with that as its basis, so be it.Overall, good escapist nonsense.
__label__8 Evan Almighty generated a lot of hype before its release. A lot of people loved Bruce Almighty, and were expecting something just a zany and hilarious in Evan Almighty. Most of them were disappointed: this movie was received negatively by most critics and audiences alike. Well, I liked it! First of all, this movie has been misunderstood, because it was mismarketed. It was marketed as a hilarious sequel to Bruce Almighty (and the trailer made it look that way, too). But, to be perfectly honest, this is more of a family film than a comedy. But it is a really good family film.This film had a lot of potential for comedy. It delivered at times, but not consistently. It also had two very crude toilet humour jokes involving male genitalia (just the word, though, nothing beyond that). I will freely admit, this isn't nearly as hilarious a comedy as the original. But it's good in its own right.Morgan Freeman's scenes as God were excellently written and performed! One scene in particular, in a restaurant, was really touching and moving. Freeman is really a terrific actor, I'm glad they cast him as God. The performances in this movie were, overall, great. (Although it's a lot of fun watching the young kid unable to resist looking into the camera when pointing out two doves to his dad.) So, all in all, Evan Almighty is not "almighty" but it's still "alrighty".
__label__8 If you go expecting to see a gut-busting laugh-out-loud comedy like the usual Jim Carrey-Tom Shayac production, you'll be disappointed. (But it also doesn't have the bathroom humor -- a relief to me.) But INSTEAD I suggest you think back to those great religious epics of the 1950s -- but with many light-hearted moments (instead of the heavy melodrama those movies had). I think then you can just sit back and enjoy this movie.Steve Carell is a master of subtle comedy -- the comedy of character nuances. He's not a big broad over-the-top comedy actor like Jim Carrey. So it's not really fair to compare him to Jim and the Ace Ventura movies.It must be a lot of pressure on him: "You're the star of the most expensive comedy ever made! Talk out of your butt or something!" They have him doing some slapstick while clumsily building the ark, but it isn't really funny. The film is stocked with expert comedy actors, but only Wanda Sykes got any laughs out of the audience. (But then, it's said Wanda Sykes can get laughs just reading a phone book.) Sadly John Goodman is wasted as "the heavy". Over the closing credits, you see a moment of him comic dancing and you remember how funny this guy is.) I was amazed to find tears rolling down my cheeks about halfway through -- when God disguised as a waiter has a little talk with Evan's wife (who thinks her husband has lost his mind). It happened a few more times till the end.So if you turn off your laugh-o-meter expectations and just look at it as a sweet story of faith with a few smiles and a lot of delightful animals and some great disaster effects, you'll enjoy it.
__label__8 With thrilling action sequences, clever sense of humor and surprisingly intellectual storyline, "Edge of Tomorrow" shows a real deal of summer blockbuster movie and proves itself beyond expectation especially after unconvincing trailers. Perhaps the theme and alien character looks familiar with some popular sci-fi movies but it's still combined perfectly as an entertainment. Doug Liman as director smartly exploited 're-setting the day' aspect without making it complicated and escaping it from being dull with some quality combat moments also inserting lovable drama that is commanded by memorable chemistry from Tom Cruise and Emilly Blunt have carried whole scenes in it. Overall "Edge of Tomorrow" feels more satisfying than it might have been in any ways and shows how the non-sequel-reboot blockbuster movie should be done. It's definitely much fun than I have ever imagined and pleasurable to re-watch it over and over again.
__label__8 Another sci-fi movie starring Tom Cruise didn't interest me much. The trailer also didn't give me a clear idea of what this movie was about which made it even surprisingly good to experience it! The thing about movies like these is that there's a lot of potential to repeat the same things over and over and leave the viewer uninterested. However, every time there was something new so it didn't feel repetitive. There were also elements of humor that were refreshing. The editing should be admired.Without giving too much away, I'll say that Tom Cruise (Major Cage) is an absolute novice in warfare, who is involuntarily picked for an assault on aliens who have taken over Europe. To combat these aliens, the joint forces around the world have developed a armor suit laced with heavy weaponry. He is baffled as to why he was picked when he knows nothing about warfare. That part wasn't satisfactorily answered. The first day after combat, he begins to develop symptoms of living the same day over and over again. Baffled, he tries to explain the situation to others who disregard his views. In Rita, he finds someone who can understand his situation.There on, it's a thrilling ride of finding out what's causing these repetitions and finding a means to put an end to it. The movie is fast paced so no mulling over. Little details of changes in the scenery, how Cage modifies his behavior both to convince others and to find an answer, and how events unfold are put forth excellently. I'm sure enthusiasts can find plot holes aplenty but I found this movie thoroughly entertaining. If you're in the mood for watching fast-paced action sci-fi, then I definitely recommend this movie!
__label__8 ............................................................from Pasto,Colombia...Via: L.A. CA., CALI, COLOMBIA and ORLANDO, FL This Review is dedicated to my student and friend Sebastian PortillaWho really likes this movie and specifically requested it!As regards EDGE, sorry, but it is pretty much of an impossibility for me to sit down and write a completely unbiased review. In my case, this film will always be viewed through the lens of Groundhog Day, one of my all- time favorite movies, my favorite film to share with my English students and, most definitely, my #1 Romantic-Comedy of all time! But despite the fact that I have seen Groundhog Day, from beginning to end, at least 2 dozen times, this is supposed to be a review of EDGE, so let's turn our focus there:It is easy to understand why so many IMDb-ers have awarded 9 or 10 stars to this "EDGY" Sci-Fi near classic, I suppose if it hadn't been for the reason so clearly spelled out above, I, undoubtedly, would have done the sameStill, EDGE possesses many standalone qualities that have motivated me to give it a well-deserved 8 Stars! FIRST: Here, Tom Cruise's character, Cage, is a die-hard desk jockey PR/Marketing mature-media- pretty-face type, who seems, at least initially, to have an anaphylactic shock reaction to any and all bellicose activities encoded in his DNA! I find this an extremely amusing tongue in cheek poke at himself in some of his earlier Mr. Invincible, Super Macho, Ethan Hunt and Jack Reacher type roles!Another critical factor working in its favor: EDGE is anything BUT a "leave your brain at the door" mindless Action/Sci-Fi flick, unlike so many of your typical Hollywood "Action/Sci-Fi" counterparts! If your focus wanders, you could be asking yourself, "OOPS! What just happened!?!?" This film almost constantly challenges you to re-evaluate your opinions and the relevance of what has transpired on screen! But don't get me wrong, EDGE has enough mind-numbing action to satisfy even the most exigent of action movie junkies! At the same time, it also presents us with some rather inspired and original plot twists. (Don't worry, No Spoilers AHEAD!) Speaking of originality, perhaps this is the perfect moment to mention that despite that its driving force idea seems to be a blatant rip-off of Groundhog Day, at least EDGE manages to impart a good deal of fresh spin to the concept, so as to give it quite a life of its own. From a technical standpoint, as is the case with most Hollywood big budget productions nowadays, Cinematography, sound, sound mixing, editing, effects, pretty much everything is extremely professionally done. Screenplay, three people with long names listed, is actually engrossing and quite engaging. For those of you who usually "PASS" on this genre, I would venture to say that quite a good number of you might find putting yourself on EDGE might be more than worth your while! ENJOY!/DISFRUTELA!Any comments, questions or observations, in English o en Español, are most welcome!
__label__8 To me this film was surprisingly enough, actually funnier than Cruises last comedy, Knight & Day. I didn't care much for that film at all, but Edge Of Tomorrow is a very welcome addition to the sci-fi genre. I enjoyed it so much, I felt like I didn't care if the end was going to come anytime soon. They could have made this film longer in my view, and it would have been just as good or maybe even better.I can honestly say that Edge of Tomorrow ranks up there with the very best sci-fi films since the turn of the century. I did see it in 3D, and I felt the 3D didn't really add anything great to the film, but that really seems to be the case with all the newer 3D films. The only film I've ever seen in which the 3D actually did add something extra special to the film, was Avatar. Personally I think the 3D fad can mostly be chalked up as another Hollywood gimmick that really does nothing at all, except add extra cost to tickets, and extra in their pockets of course. This film itself however is not a gimmick, it's solid action sci-fi that even does have some real thought provoking moments. The writing here is good, far better than most Hollywood action films. There is even a nod to Mr.Kubrick in the film. Do yourself a favor and check this out.8.5/10
__label__8 "Waterworld" is one of those movies that everyone would rather passively make fun of rather than take the time to watch. This is unfortunate, because it really is a good movie. Sure, it's borrowing a lot from "Mad Max," but it's not like "Mad Max" was original fare to begin with. It's an interesting take on the genre, with some nice sets and costumes, a great soundtrack, and the coolest boat to ever appear on a movie screen. The script has thoughtfully and intricately worked out a new way of life in a post-apocalyptic world, and the supposed "plot holes" aren't as big as everyone makes them out to be (OK, we never really find out why dirt is so important in the future; so what? Is that enough to ruin the whole movie?).If anything brings it down, it's Kevin Costner's performance. The brooding, gloomy hero shtick works, but he's still far too serious for a movie like this. If he'd had the good sense to be a little more tongue-in-cheek, it would have helped a LOT. Still, it's not a bad movie by any means, and I really think all the negativity toward it is unnecessary. Enough with all the complaining... just sit back and enjoy it! 8/10 stars.
__label__8 Continuing my plan to watch every Kevin Costner movie in order, I come to Waterworld.One of the most controversial movies in KC's filmography. Simply because it had the stigma of being the most expensive movie ever produced at the time. A snip by modern standards at $175 million. Universal initially authorized a budget of $100 million, but production costs eventually ran it up to to an estimated $175 million, with KC putting $22 million of his own money into the film, just as he did with Dances With Wolves. Plot In A Paragraph: In a future where the polar ice-caps have melted and Earth is entirely submerged, The Mariner (KC) reluctantly helps a woman and a young girl try to find dry land.KC reunites with Fandango and Robin Hood: Prince Of Thieves director Kevin Reynolds for what should be a slam dunk for the pair of them, but with troubled production from the off, the film was plagued by a series of cost overruns and production setbacks. The script underwent 36 different drafts which involved six different writers, including Joss Whedon who flew out to Hawaii to work on it, he later described it as "seven weeks of hell". Sets were destroyed (The Atoll actually sank too) by three hurricanes, KC, his stuntman, Jeanne Tripplehorn and Tina Majorino (who was also drunk by jellyfish repeatedly too) all nearly drowned. All of that,and then throw in leading man KC's whose marriage fell apart during filming, and when Wyatt Earp opened to empty turnstiles to become his second (third if you count The War) box office disappointment in a row, the critics were gunning for him. Writing that after great success, he was finished, and on his way out. They made out, at 40, he was an ageing gunslinger (think KC would approve of the western metaphor) hearing the footsteps of younger faster trigger men named Will Smith, Jim Carrey, Tom Hanks and Leo Dicaprio. I know i'm in the minority here along with an ever increasing circle of people who actually enjoy this very under rated movie. I don't think it's fan bias, when I say Waterworld is a thoroughly enjoyable summer popcorn flick, all the performances are good, the action set pieces are impressive and it has a good sense of atmosphere too. Whilst I always end up humming James Newton Howard's score for a while after I have watched it too. It's not perfect by any means. Locking director Reynolds out of the editing room, KC hacked it to pieces in order to accommodate the two-hour-running-time maxim imposed by the studio, so that corporate could get their investment back.I'm in the process of trying to track down a fan-edit of the film called Waterworld: Ulysses Cut, which includes all of the deleted scenes. The additional scenes tie up several loose ends left ambiguous by the theatrical release.Even with all of the above, and opening a week before guaranteed money maker Die Hard With A Vengeance, Waterworld ended the year the 12th highest grossing movie of 1995, with a domestic gross of $88 million. KC bashers should get over themselves, and start giving George Lucas what he deserves.
__label__8 22 November 2009. This enduring action adventure sci fi epic considered a megamillion dollar flop still resonates with action, adventure, humanity and inhumanity that is well paced, well scripted, and compelling in its music and action. This balanced perspective on a world undergone global warming in is waterworld that contains all the action of the MADMAX series (1985), the post-apocalyptic world of THE POSTMAN (1997) that would be released two years later, but not quite the sweeping vision and in-depth authenticity of DANCES WITH WOLVES (1990). Kevin Costner retains his standoffish male figure and in some ways by the end of the movie retains his independence and differences in the face of nature even more so than most of his similar movies. Under-rated, this movie appears to continue to re-run in syndication, a testament to its value when other of its ilk have long since been forgotten.
__label__8 This is one of those movies you will either love with a passion or do the opposite and hate with a passion, there is not much in between.If you are a Kevin Costner fan, which admittedly I am, you will love it. The addition of Dennis Hopper doing his thing just adds to the fun of the movie, and it is fun if you keep and open mind.There is lots of blood and guts, action, explosions and gun fire, but it is fun as well with many laugh out loud moments.This is a movie I have been able to watch over and over, it just does that for me and the list of movies that do that for me is not overly long.From what I have read, this was a critical failure, well that can be said for a lot of movies crapped on by critics. It does't mean it is a bad movie.One of my rules I have adopted is, if it is a critical failure it will in all probability be something worth watching.7/10 for me, easy to give it higher, but 7 will do.
__label__8 OK, I had almost every GI Joe toy growing up. I also watched the cartoon. Being a young kid during the 80's was awesome. As far as I am concerned, the toys and the cartoons from that era are the best. However, after first seeing the preview for GI Joe, and seeing that they now wore mech suits...... I had very low expectations for the movie. Just figured they were trying yet another way to milk money off of the remainder of 80's cartoons/ re-imaging.However, I have to say, even though there was a little cheesiness to it, I really enjoyed this movie. This movie is based off a toy/cartoon/comic book. It isn't like other comics that could be deep, or thought provoking. It was always mainly about action, cool weapons, good guys and bad guys, getting caught and then escaping. This movie is just that. A action movie from start to finish. Has enough of a storyline to make it from beginning to end, but is mainly about the action. It doesn't give you a lot of back story to the characters. You do get a couple flashbacks, just so you know who people are, and how they are connected. But this isn't really an origins movie. I think some people were expecting some kind of epic movie experience. This movie is not that! This is a popcorn/ summer action movie/ and a way to relive some childhood memories for those of us who grew up watching the cartoon, or playing with the toys.For those of you complaining about plot holes, and/or unbelievable science......... come on!!! What about the original cartoons was so believable??? This is fantasy!!!I will admit though, although I did like the movie, some of the special effects were not that good. There were a few times during the movie where I saw something that just looked too fake, and I was like ... "that is just cheesy". But overall, it was a fun movie. Definitely not one I regret going to see.
__label__8 I was very looking forward to the G.I. Joe film, not because I'm a fan of the toys or the animated series, but because I knew what to expect: tons of cool special effects and some really exciting action. And guess what? That's exactly what the film provides.If there's something G.I. Joe is, it's an action movie. But unlike movies like Transformers 2, Sommers' motion picture actually succeeds at providing with wall-to-wall action. Unlike Michael Bay, he doesn't insert explosions every three seconds, and doesn't seem to have the need of shaking his camera like a madman so that the audience doesn't have a clue of what's happening. Yes, there is a lot of action in this movie, but it is of the comprehensible sort, meaning the viewer actually knows if his favorite characters are in danger and also has the opportunity of enjoying and being marveled by the special effects instead of watching balls of fire and tons of CGI that doesn't make sense. Sommers' approach to action is almost "old-fashioned", and I thanks him for that. Of course, that doesn't mean that all of the action sequences work beautifully; some of them are a little tiresome actually. There is no denying, though, that the Paris action set-piece is quite awesome, both in terms of special effects, and in terms of how excited and tense it made me feel.Now, regarding the special effects... yes, they are by no means perfect, and yes, the film does have a sort-of artificial look from time to time, but it's nothing serious. Sommers always inserts a lot of computer-generated effects and other extravagances in his movies, and although these kinds of tricks have improved in quality during the last couple of years, it's always hard to make them look 100% realistic if you're inserting them virtually everywhere. (The movie doesn't have an infinite budget, after all.) Nevertheless, because the film doesn't take itself excessively seriously (unlike Revenge of the Fallen), these kinds of "mistakes" are allowed. I even accepted a final "revelation", which occurs during the last few minutes of runningtime, and which includes a "new" (and very cheesy) Darth Vader-looking bad guy. Why? Because I accepted the fact that this is a "toy movie", and that nothing (expect maybe some of the characters) should be taken too seriously.Performances are what should be expected from this kind of movie. Not particularly strong, but not bad either. The standout is Sienna Miller, who is almost unrecognizable with black hair and dark glasses. (She looks really hot, though.) She seems to be having lots of fun playing the bad guy, and thus manages to create a very memorable and entertaining character. Rachel Nichols is cute and believable as Scarlett, and Marlon Wayans is great as Ripcord; he can be funny and dorky from time to time, but because he's also a pretty good soldier and because he's never too goofy, one can take his character (kinda) seriously. His flirting with Nichols was great, not only because it was fun, but because it was - for a lack of a better word - awesome to see an inter-racial romance making an appearance in a big-budget Hollywood blockbuster. Christopher Eccleston is effective as a megalomaniac villain, and despite their small parts, the likes of Dennis Quaid (always reliable, that bloke), Brendan Fraser and Jonathan Pryce (!) are memorable. The one disappointment, though, is Channing Tatum, who as Duke is almost as wooden as Hayden Christensen's Anakin Skywalker. He looks good during the action sequences, but that's about it.The main reason, though, of why G.I. Joe is so much superior to Revenge of the Fallen (I know I'm comparing both movies a little too much, but it's almost unavoidable) is that the former actually has memorable and fun characters worth rooting for, while the latter has virtually no characters, and instead provides with a gazzilion CGI robots who look virtually all the same during the confusing action sequences. I like the fact that each Joe is given a back-story through flashbacks (the most interesting is definitely the one concerning Snake Eyes and his rival, Storm Shadow), and I also like the fact that, despite having very archetypical personalities, each character is instantly recognizable and played with style. The screenplay might not be particularly smart (although it's a million times wittier and organized than the one for Michael Bay's picture), but it accomplishes what it sets to do: provide with nice and entertaining characters, a plot that actually makes sense, and action sequences that don't feel repetitive or dull.So has Stephen Sommers and his creative team managed to fulfill expectations? Well, considering buzz for the movie a couple of months ago was horribly negative, it won't be hard for the filmmakers to please their audience, but even if expectations had been higher, I don't think viewers would have emerged disappointed from theatres. I can say I was a Joe virgin before watching the movie; I knew nothing about the characters, the plot or the role of the "Cobra" organization in the series' mythos, but after watching the film, I am now more interested in everything related to it. Needless to say, the movie does do a really good job at presenting the characters and the plot to newbies, and I'm sure that for die-hard fans, it is a very entertaining and visually-pleasing way to revisit their favorite characters. With its comprehensible action, cool special effects, effective performances and mildly-interesting plot, G.I. Joe is one of the better big-budget action extravaganzas I've seen in some time. In short, what Transformers 2 should have been and sadly wasn't.
__label__8 I've lost count of how many good movies Pixar has produced. This is another one and I'd rank it very high on my all-time Pixar movie list.It centers on a little girl whose family has just decided to move house due to his father changing jobs. Logically this provokes new changes, adjustments and hopes and we have the perfect opportunity to explore them as the picture offers us the chance to find out what's going on inside this girl's mind. Emotions perfectly depicted by mini-avatar which inhabit her brain. They're in charge of her emotional well being which is something that needs to be taken care of for this little girl to become a stable and happy woman. The fact that the film targets young adults shouldn't hold back adults at all since it core message is one we can all relate to.
__label__8 No matter how old I grow, or how many wrinkles I have on my face, or even if I have a husband or kids already, I will always cry when Bing Bong dies. Always. When he falls off and into the bad, fading memories, his beady eyes blinking. It always gets me. I'm the only one who cries, but I don't care. It gets me. Inside Out brings back so many childhood memories, of our joyful times and our sad times this story says that even sad moments and memories can be okay, because they help us grow stronger. And imagination should never leave us and that we should hold on to as many memories as we can.
__label__8 The boy Mowgli (Neel Sethi) is raised in the jungle by the female wolf Raksha with her cubs in the pack led by Akela. The panther Bagheera saved Mowgli when he was a baby and delivered him to Raksha. During the drought, the animals celebrate truce to drink water around the Peace Rock together, but the cruel tiger Shere Khan sees Mowgli and promises to kill him when the water return. Bagheera decides to guide Mowgli to a village on the outskirts of the woods, but they are attacked by Shere Khan during their journey. Mowgli flees but the anaconda Kaa attacks him; however the bear Baloo saves him and they become friends. But Shere Khan wants to kill Mowgli and no animal is capable to stop him. What will happen to Mowgli?"The Jungle Book" is an awesome film with fantastic CGI. It is impressive the interaction of Mowgli with the animals and the jungle. The wolf cubs are cute and the voice of Scarlett Johansson is mesmerizing. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil):"Mogli: O Menino Lobo" ("Mogli: The Boy Wolf")
__label__8 The Jungle Book is the next instalment in the growing list of Disney live action remakes that have so far turned out to be relatively alright at best. This is by far the best of the bunch as it gives us something that adopts a slightly more serious and modern tone but still sticks to some of the qualities that made the Disney Classic so beloved. Going into the film, the most impressive aspect that i was looking forward to the most was seeing, or hearing the fantastic cast in action. Having Bill Murray, Ben Kingsly, Idris Elba, Scarlet Johannson, and Christopher Walken cast as the characters we love is enough to get me looking forward to the film. Some fit more than others but overall, the talent paid off. Even though it is a 'live action' adaptation, only like 5% of the film at the most is real, the rest is all done through some of the most impressive CGI i have ever seen. That is a testament to young Neil Sethi's ability to act, as it was essentially him in a green room talking and interacting with nothing. The overall plot of the film stays very faithful to the original film with changes here and there that are both better and worse, but it's what you expect from these adaptations. They got you invested into these completely CGI animals and you understand their emotions and relationships with each other as if it is done with performance capture. They conveyed themes of love and fear in the characters really well, and it really is those two themes that drive the plot and character development of the film forward. HOLD ON - 'Rogue One: A Star Wars Story' Trailer just dropped, ill be back in 15 to finish this off..... priorities. In terms of the characters, i thought the film captured their personalities and attitudes almost perfectly. Bill Murray as Baloo was perfect, he was just as fun and entertaining to watch as his animated counterpart, and completely stole all scenes he was in. Idris Elba as Shere Khan was menacing and was a real force to be reckoned with in this film, you felt that he was the most feared tiger in the jungle. Ben Kingsly was also the best fit for Bagheera as he nailed the very wise and intelligent personality, and was just a really cool character. Neil Sethi as Mowgli was fantastic, especially for his first acting role, the way he managed to show chemistry between him and those non- existent characters so well is something many experienced actors still struggle to do, so i can see him improving and getting more roles in the future. Just the chemistry and relationships between Mowgli and Baloo, Mowgli and Bagheera, and Mowgli and Raksha made many moments of the film so much more entertaining and impactful. Christopher Walken as King Louie was overall pretty good, i didn't mind hearing his voice as the famous Orangutang/Gigantopithecus. There are some issues with his scene that ill get into in a bit. But by far the most underused character was Scarlet Johansson's Kaa, who to be honest may as well have not been in the film at all. She shows up for 5 minutes max and makes no impact on the main plot, it was a disappointing use of a great character. The film did delve into some humorous exchanges between the characters especially with Mowgli and Baloo, and it helped to lighten the mood at times which helped me stay interested. A very minor issue i had was that there were some early moments where the film i felt could have been moving along a little quicker, it only lasted like 5 minutes max each time, but it could have been handled better. And my major gripe with the film was notably the scene with Mowgli and King Louie. The film tried to throw 'I wanna be like you' into this scene and it really didn't work, like at all. It was almost as bad as characters in 2015's 'Pan' singing a rendition of Nirvana's 'Smells like teen spirit'. It took me out of the film completely and should have been left out. But overall i had a lot of fun with this film. It was exciting, emotional, adventurous and it had a solid plot, great characters and performances, and unbelievably perfect use of CGI. It really is a lot of fun and you should go see it this weekend, well worth it.8/10
__label__8 For some reason this movie had not been getting the greatest critic reviews. I do not understand that at all. I thought the movie was very enjoyable and a successful sequel in the series.For anyone who has seen the first Iron Man you can expect much of the same in this movie. Robert Downey Jr. plays Tony Stark like he is meant for the part. He has the same sarcastic wit and self-confidence that is evident in his other movie roles. Gwyeneth Paltrow, as Pepper Potts, has a comes more to the forefront in the sequel. I also personally love that Jon Favreau is the driver for Stark/Potts, and that he gets into the action a little bit. You have to respect the director for that, even though Jon has done plenty of acting himself.Normally in when they replace someone in a sequel with a different actor/actress I am very upset. However, Don Cheadle replacing Terrence Howard in Iron Man 2 as War Machine/Lt. Rhodes made me happy. This is similar to what happened with Maggie Gylenhal in the Dark Night.Samuel L. Jackson playing Nick Fury has a bigger role, and it leads all the viewers into wanting The Avengers movie to come out immediately. Scarlett Johansson also showed up with some impressive stunt work, along with her always gorgeous looks.All in all it was a well done sequel. The plot is not too convoluted to follow. The new villain, played by Mickey Rourke, is very impressive and fun to watch. The action scenes are all entertaining but they do not completely drive the movie. The only thing that I wished for leaving the theater was a longer final fight scene.Also, make sure to watch after the credits!! It is short, but worth it.
__label__8 The sequel to Marvel studio's surprise hit of 2008 is here, bigger than ever. But is it better? After the surprise success of Iron Man, expectations for the sequel, from both movie viewers and long time comic books fans, were no doubt high.Picking off where the first film ended, billionaire genius Tony Stark has just revealed to the world his identity as the armor clad superhero, Iron Man. Now he reaps the whirlwind consequences of his actions as both the military and unscrupulous competitor Justin Hammer vie to obtain the secrets of Stark's Iron Man technology for their own gain. Too add to the flames, Stark soon discovers that the very technology that is keeping his heart alive is also poisoning him. As he tries to salvage a life that is slowly falling to pieces and his growing feelings for his long time assistant Pepper Potts(Gwyneth Paltrow), Starks has to contend to with a foreign weapons genius named Ivan Vanko who seems to bear a deep seated grudge against the ailing billionaire; a grudge that stemmed from the legacy of Tony's father, Howard Stark.Whatever was good in the first movie is carried on in true sequel fashion. The acting and chemistry among the cast is definitely the highlight of the whole film. Robert Downey Jr IS Tony Stark, though less of a playboy following his "change of heart"(figuratively and literally) in the first movie, but still the same wisecracking, smirky eccentric. Everyone is just so natural in their roles including the villains, especially The character of Justin Hammer, played by Sam Rockwell. Hammer had all the makings of a silly one dimensional villainous caricature, but manages to be a well rounded scumbag of a corporate competitor, providing some excellent comic relief while still presenting a credible threat to the hero.That being said, the script is just littered with witty banter, intelligent jokes and a good number of "Easter eggs" for the long time comic book fans. Writer Justin Theroux had a good number of interesting themes going for this movie, most notable of which is the theme of "legacy", of what people leave behind when they are gone; their impressions on their successors and how the effects of their past actions would echo down the years long after one has passed. Stark himself, faced with his inevitable demise, does not want to leave a legacy of death as a weapons designer. Aside from that, we see how the legacies of both Stark's and Ivan Vanko's fathers have affected their present lives.Now, Vanko's (played by Sin City's Mickey Rourke) is a truly tragic tale. It is easy to pass him off as a "darth maul" type character with no other purpose than to provide the hero with a powerful opponent for the mandatory climax. But to the more attentive viewers, one can see how Vanko is basically the dark opposite reflection of Tony Stark. Both are geniuses, both are where they are because of their respective fathers yet different circumstances in life brought them down entirely different paths. The parallels between his origin story of creating the "whiplash" powered armor from scrap, getting captured(in a similarly explosive manner) in order to develop weapons for one man to bring down his competitor all the way to his cunning escape plan and his mistaken impression about his dearly departed father are all uncannily similar to Tony Stark's experiences in the first movie that led up to his debut as the hero Iron Man and his mistaken impression about his own father.The one thing viewers might not appreciate is that this sequel seems to lack that sense of "fun" that the first film had, taking on a more serious tone at times to dish out the more complex themes and even a romantic sub-plot. It really is too bad that the more complex themes are there but not really expanded upon. This leaves a lot of "could have been more" moments hanging by the time the show ends. At least the action is satisfying high octane eye candy as Jon Favreau's steady directing hand brings out the intensity of every battle scene. Special effects are top notch as usual except for a couple of cartoony looking moments that do require some suspension of disbelief, for example the briefcase that transforms into an iron man armor with armor parts seemingly appearing from out of nowhere.By the time the all too familiar final battle is over and the credits start rolling, one gets the impression that Iron Man 2 could have been a lot more than the sum of its parts. A little longer running time would have fixed most of the story kinks but perhaps Marvel is merely using this movie as a money generator and spring board to something greater.(Blatant teasers are thrown into the narrative itself almost like a running catalog of future Marvel film projects).Topping the first film is no easy feat and of course Iron Man 2 would disappoint a few here and there. But it is nonetheless one of the most entertaining comic book movies that mixes action, wit, drama and cast chemistry so well. If widespread appeal is its purpose, then Iron Man 2 has fulfilled that function magnificently in that even a newcomer to the franchise can kick back and enjoy the show. Marvel studios has started a new legacy beyond great comics. Here is a legacy of comic book movies, true to the spirit of its source material yet tailored nicely to the tastes of the modern movie audience.
__label__8 So, after the publication of the first full-length Iron Man and its success with the audience (the box office speaks for itself), many with genuine interest waited for the sequel release - and Casey Cooper is no exception to this long list.As a result, I looked, I was glad with all my heart and made an inspired conclusion - the potential of "Iron Man" on the whole scale resulted in the second part in an excellent entertaining blockbuster and one of the best comic book adaptations that I saw.But let's start with the laws of sequels, or rather not from laws (after all, they are not always fulfilled in the production of film products), but from the expectations of the audience: from the second part we expect even more scope, more humor, more battles, more heroes than in the original - and "Iron Man" all these expectations justified.In addition, he gave an occasion to be stunned by characters with Russian roots - how nice it was to hear that China, Korea, Iran for another 10 years will not reach the technology of Tony Stark (and the competing American company "Hammer" - all 20), and Russian, well and let the villain on the film, Ivan Vanko in the handicraft conditions did not worse, and even made so much noise!Now back to the original - remember all that you liked the first "Iron Man" - so all this you will find in the sequel, only in places you need to multiply by 2 - and above all it concerns characters.Tony Stark did not change from the first picture and remained an amazing combination of playboy / genius / showman - so Robert Downey Jr. did not disappoint and gave out the same standing image, maybe even with some deeper into the inner world of the hero (again he does not everything is smooth with health, yes, even here my father was attached).Gwyneth Paltrow gave exactly the same image, exactly the same - no more, no less.For a couple of moments, that is, a couple of appearances on the screen pleased Nick Fury in the performance of Samuel L. Jackson, although there is no need to expect any action from him.Tony Stark's best friend changed face - in the original played Terrence Howard, and now Don Cheadle - but I somehow did not notice the difference (probably because the first part looked a long time and the character there was not the most important place), but he had to act much more - including in the suit of an iron man.Mickey Rourke portrayed a gifted mind, a hatred for the Stark family and a bunch of tattoos of the villain Ivan Vanko (in the comics - Whip), as it is required from comics, that is, beyond the PG-13 with any profanity or something did not come out, but the image was on the whole turned out worthwhile.Scarlett Johansson was beautiful and with dark hair, but her character presented a couple of surprises - first of all, I repeat: I did not expect such an image (or I interrupt memories from memories) - so as not to spoil, I will not describe all this, but in the course of the picture, all expectations around her character were covered with a copper basin, although what happened turned out to be different, but not bad at all - a couple of spectacular appearances in the course of the film, to finally shine in the finale.Sam Rockwell - did not even know that he was playing here - I can not really single out his character - Justin Hammer - the head of a competing company (primarily because Tony, as it should be, was simply eclipsed), but the actor did everything that was required of him.Final - this is generally a separate merit - the ending of the original and next to it was not compared with the large-scale, spectacular and numerous finale of the second part. Bravo for such a brilliant finishing touch! Although neither the beginning nor the middle was disappointed - another brilliant combination of Tony Stark's humor, an excursion into his rampant life, a fight scene in the beginning and the middle as a foretaste of a much more significant and multifaceted final fight.Result: the first "Iron Man" was remembered by the bright, but classic manner of adaptations of comic strips with the appropriate filling in the plot plan, which allowed him to become not a breakthrough, but the primacy of traditions and a worthy spectacle for entertainers in general and comics in particular - and the second part from the original in no way fell behind, and in many ways even surpassed him.
__label__8 Iron Man 2 is a fine sequel. Almost the whole cast returns intact, and director Jon Favreau has more screen time in his role as Happy Hogan. Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) is riding high after the events of Iron Man (2008). He has become famous worldwide, and he re-institutes the Stark Expo. But problems begin to pile up. Another wealthy industrialist wants his Iron Man technology. Then a new villain appears. Stark's relationship with his assistant Virginia Potts (Gwyneth Paltrow) is also expanded upon. There's a lot going on in the film, but its rather weak script hurts it for sure. Mickey Rourke as the villain Ivan Vanko stands out. He's more menacing than Obadiah Stane was in the first film. Vanko's first encounter with Stark leads to a thrilling fight scene. Unfortunately Rourke's character isn't fully developed. This is a problem with other characters in the film as well. Vanko is a memorable villain but if Rourke was given more screen time and his character had more of a backstory I'm sure he could have been even more memorable. Still, Rourke tried to make his character as complex as he could.The film's special effects are excellent. Some of the time, however, they're used on shootouts and explosions that don't produce much excitement. There's a lot more humour this time around. I was smiling or laughing during most of the film. Scarlett Johansson as the beautiful Natasha Romanoff gets to show off some impressive martial arts moves. It's rather funny afterwards because no one else can fight like her. Overall, the film is not as good as Iron Man. Still, it's an entertaining summer blockbuster and the performances are solid. I wasn't expecting much from the film but was pleasantly surprised. I recommend Iron Man 2.
__label__8 "Iron Man" is not my favorite superhero(that place goes to Batman)nor does he rank ahead of Wonder Women still Tony Stark is an interesting cocky sucker of enough character to watch. As "Iron Man 2" for a sequel really delivered. As director Jon Favreau once again kept the action rolling with special effects and kick ass action sequences. Once again Robert Downey Jr. is back as Tony Stark former weapons mogul turned special agent Iron Man. This time his challenge is a Russian villain named Ivan(Mickey Rourke fresh off his classic performance in "The Wrestler") who wants to destroy the world with his new chemical and high tech weapons. And Sam Rockwell struts as a money hungry arms dealer.Returning is Gwyneth Paltrow as Tony's girlfriend now company CEO. And to spice up the picture a real treat of eye candy is Scarlett Johansson as Natasha who's sexy as hell! She becomes a new superhero! Really this film is a showcase for cutting edge technology that shows human inventions. And it was nice to see a cameo by Bill O' Reilly too. Overall this picture is a good treat of action and explosive technology. Probably a watch for any comic book fan.
__label__8 Once upon a time, King Magnus (Noah Huntley) and his Queen have a beautiful daughter, Snow White, who is raised with her best friend William. When the Queen passes away, the King grieves her death but has to fight against a dark invader army. He rescues a beautiful prisoner, Ravenna (Charlize Theron), and on the next day he marries her. On the wedding night, Ravenna stabs King Magnus on the chest and brings the enemy army led by her brother Finn (Sam Spruell) that destroys the King's army. Ravenna imprisons Snow White on the Northern Tower of the castle while William, his father The Duke and a few survivors escape from the castle.Years later, the kingdom is completely depleted and Queen Ravenna, who is an evil witch, keeps her beauty draining the youth of young ladies. When the Magic Mirror tells that Snow White would be the source of her immortality, she asks Finn to bring the princess to her. However, Snow White (Kristen Stewart) escapes and flees to the Dark Forest. Queen Ravenna brings a Huntsman (Chris Hemsworth) that misses his wife and she promises to bring her back to life provided he catches Snow White to her. But when he captures Snow White, he discovers that the evil Queen lied to him and he becomes the protector of the princess. Meanwhile William (Sam Claflin) learns that Snow White is alive and he heads to join Finn's men to meet her. The Huntsman and Snow White meet the eight dwarfs that bring them to the magic Fairytale Land. When they are attacked by Finn and his men, William also finds them and the group heads to the Duke's castle with the intention of beginning an uprising against the Ravenna. But the evil Queen will try to get her aimed immortality."Snow White and the Huntsman" is a wonderful dark adaptation of the classic fairytale "Snow White" by the Brothers Grimm and adapted to the cinema and immortalized by Walt Disney. The story is excellent, despite minor flaws like for example Snow White running and swimming after years imprisoned in a dirty tower, and is supported by a great screenplay, magnificent cinematography and CGI and good acting. There are unbelievable negative reviews in IMDb and my only remark is that the talented Kristen Stewart has never been more beautiful (actually, he uses the word The Fairest) than the gorgeous Charlize Theron, despite their difference of ages: the Magic Mirror is wrong. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Branca de Neve e o Caçador" ("Snow White and the Huntsman")
__label__8 When I heard they were making this film, I was slightly anxious how this would turn out. After the disappointing re-imagining of Alice In Wonderland, I feared this would go the same way. I was wrong. Everything about this film was excellent. The level of design, the cinematography, the acting and the special effects all absolutely shone and brought this world to life, stepping effortlessly from serene and beautiful, to tough and gritty in a heart beat.So lets talk about the cast. Yes, I had my reservations when I heard the main three characters were all played by non-Brits (Stewart, Theron and Hemsworth) having said that, they all played their characters excellently. Stewart's portrayal of Snow White was a subtle and intelligent performance. Her accent (and this is coming from a Brit) was pretty good, in fact all three did very well in that department. Stewart has really progressed as an actress and found her feet in this film. She looked absolutely stunning with the help of incredible cinematography, but what impressed me most of all was her characters arc throughout the film. She has really provided young girls with an excellent role model. Turning from a damsel in distress to a woman who can really stand her ground and fight for what she believes in. Chris Hemsworth surprised me in this film. His accent did suffer slightly, however it did not detract from what I thought was a great performance. In particular the scene in which he talks about his dead wife to a lifeless Snow White was extremely heartfelt and showed a side to him that I've have not seen in his previous movies. Theron, Queen Ravenna, played the part expertly. Her character could have easily have become two dimensional, but Charlize added a quality which almost gained sympathy from the audience. Her struggle for undying beauty and immortally, may be a shallow one, however the way she played it with such commitment, energy and sometimes poignancy made us completely believe how deeply craved for it, therefore earning her right to be so deliciously wicked.I would liked to have seen more of the seven dwarfs and I feel they were slightly under used. Ray Winstone, Nick Frost and Toby Jones provided the comic relief the film needed in such darkness however also provided one of the most touching scenes which was acted brilliantly by all and shot stunningly. Adding to the beautiful camera work was the stirring, operatic score. Composed by James Newton Howard, it really lifted the film and stood out over the chaos of the battle scenes, created tension in all the right places, and moved me to the point where my hair on my arms and neck stood on end. Finally, I would whole heartedly recommend this film. This is the best blockbuster this year and has really given the kiss of life to the fairy tale genre, breathing new air into a this classic form of story telling. The director Rupert Sanders said in his speech before the film, that he wanted to create a film with heart, that he felt has been missing from some movies recently, and he really has delivered. It would have been easy for a new director to be overwhelmed by such a large budget, scale and special effects, but not once did he let it overshadow the story and the characters. Snow White says in the film :"You will not take me heart" which is exactly was Sanders seems to have said to Hollywood Blockbusters, as he has created a film with so much heart, that not even a poison apple could put it to sleep.
__label__8 Mirror Mirror on the wall how was Snow White and the Huntsman after all? This is definitely a must see for the summer if you love fantasy type movies in the vain of Lord of the Rings and Legend. Great scenes incorporating stunning action sequences, comedy and what you know of the story from your youth but without running over that same old ground until it is mud. Many new fresh takes on the classic tale are here for sure to keep you entertained for it's 2 hour duration while allowing you to escape into it's magical world. Charlize Theron is amazing as the evil queen and Chris Hemsworth does a bang up job as the Huntsman. The CG effects throughout the movie are very well done and add that little bit you need to a film like this. The PG 13 rating is also appropriate since the film has a very Dark overshadow and may not be the best for small children to view. With the 2012 Summer movie season already well on the way with blockbusters such as the Avengers and MIB III, Snow White and the Huntsman will fit in just fine and hold it's own for sure.
__label__8 While this film was a little slow it delves into the heart of an issue that has plagued us for centuries: why do we fight each other and why do we go out of our way to kill each other. While this film involves the beginning of a war between humans and apes, this war could represent any war between two clans or factions, with the difference being ideological, cultural, or even as pathetic as the colour of one's skin. It is clear that the hostilities that arise come down to differences that are pretty much only skin deep, and that is that one side are apes and the other side is human.As I watched this film though it made me think about the wars that are brewing, or raging, around the globe, and how many of these wars begin through misunderstandings and outright lies. Among the apes we are being told that humans are barbaric and dangerous, and that they cannot be trusted. Among the humans we are told that the apes are responsible for the virus that devastated humanity. Then there is the manipulation of facts and the propaganda that begins the war, as well as the struggle within the factions, between those who see war as being pointless, as well as those who believe that it is necessary, because those who do not go to war are weak and will end up being overthrown.There is also the misunderstandings and the distrust between the two sides, for while they are told to discard their weapons, there is one that always has to ignore the request due to the fear that by discarding their weapons they open themselves up to being attacked and being defenceless. Of course there are those who are always looking for a peaceful solution, trying to work together, however the peaceful ones are always being undermined by the war mongers, who for some reason seem to have the loudest voices.Sometimes I wonder whether Hollywood actually supports the warmongers in power, or whether they are closer to the left as the right claim they are. For me it is the Hollywood dichotomy in that they have aspects of both the left and the right within their culture. Obviously there is the lose morals of many of the characters, and of course the idea that seeking revenge for being wronged is actually okay (which seems to form the basis of many an action movie). In this film it is the question of war, and the fact that when it comes to war, those who cry for war, and those who manipulate the truth to fuel the passions of the masses, are those that then to come out on top, and those who advocate for peace are seen as weak, and in some cases, unpatriotic.
__label__8 There are some films you go to see with low expectations and back in 2011 Rupert Wyatt's "Rise of the Planet of the Apes" was one of those. After the Charlton Heston classic, a long series of increasingly poor sequels and a failed Tim Burton reboot, apprehension was high. But how wrong could I be. This was 100% a 10/10 film (if I'd been doing these reviews in those days): an epic and gripping story; great performances from James Franco, John Lithgow, Freida Pinto and Harry Potter star Tom Felton; and stunningly executed special effects, with Andy Serkis's performance delivering amazing depth of feeling and emotion. (The scene where Serkis's character Caesar first speaks is one of my top 10 "most goose-bumpy" moments in cinema history).Now, 4 years later, we have the sequel - Dawn of the Planet of the Apes - which, given how much I loved the original film, I approached with a similar feeling of apprehension. But, I am delighted to say, I was pleasantly surprised.Dawn of the Planet of the Apes neatly takes over in its opening titles where the closing titles of the first film left off. The so-called Simean flu has wiped out 499 of every 500 people on earth, deftly explaining why James Franco and Freida Pinto fail to reprise their roles in the sequel: in fact it would have been an unrealistic cop-out if either had done. Instead - monkey business aside - we have a brand new human cast led by Jason Clarke ("Zero Dark Thirty", "The Great Gatsby"), Keri Russell ("MI-3's" 'bomb in the head' girl) and heavy hitter Gary Oldman. These characters are trying to rebuild a new society for the survivors in San Francisco, but their desire for power (of the volts and amps variety) puts them in direct conflict with the emerging simian society deep in the redwoods. Much conflict ensues, not only between the two tribes but between the factions of the two societies.Once again, there is a good story by original writers Rick Jaffa and Amanda Silver, joined by Mark Bomback: underneath the set-piece action sequences, the majority of the drama comes from the relationships between the characters, and especially that between Caesar (Serkis) and his estranged son played extremely well by Nick Thurston, culminating in a remarkable stand-out scene between the two in Caesar's old home that is genuinely moving. And another specific callout was Yorkshire-born Toby Kebbell playing the emotionally and mentally wounded Koba: his scenes in the human armoury - think Heath Ledger's Joker crossed with PG Tips advert - are both funny and distubing in equal measure.Is it as good as "Rise"? No, not in my view. The first film was novel and deep, and "Dawn" is more superficial in comparison. It is also far more of an action film (or "a bit fighty" as my dear wife described it), with some standout battle scenes that are a masterpiece of special effects. If "Rise" could be compared to the original "Alien", "Dawn" is much more like "Aliens" - wham, bang, thank-you Simian.The director this time is wunderkind Matt Reeves ("Cloverfield", "Let Me In"), directing with panache and a narrative drive that only occasionally lets up for emotional punch. The acting is good and (as flagged above) the special effects are outstanding: the production team clearly saw "I am Legend" and wanted to go one better with the San Francisco streets. And all topped off with a fine and un-obtrusive score by Michael Giacchino.Highly recommended, and I am now looking forward to the next sequel, planned for a 2016 release.(If you enjoyed this review, please see my library of other reviews at bob-the-movie-man.com and enter your email address to "Follow the Fad". Thanks.)
__label__8 The reviews for this film seem to be pretty negative generally speaking. Pivoting around the historical inaccuracies and the addition of the "Half Breed" character played by Keanu Reeves to this legendary tail. More on that further in.In a nut shell. 47 Ronin has a fair amount of mystical magic and demons peppered throughout a historical tail. A tale of Samurai who's master is killed and their status is reduced to Ronin. Only for them to rise up and seek revenge against the evil ruler and his witch who are responsible.Let's get to some positive stuff. Visually the 47 Ronin is beautiful. The costumes design and color choices to separate each of the different clans is impressive in it's complexity. The villains are not just dressed in black, but a fair amount of purple and silver is mixed in to highlight the details in their armor. The sets have an epic feel that is grounded and doesn't feel to fantastic, but rather believable.Now on to the "Half Breed", who mainly adds the taste of a forbidden love story as well as a lifeline to the audience, drowning is a sea of unfamiliar faces. Many, if not most reviewers who've pan this movie for the addition of the "half breed" character fail to realize his importance for the audience. Around the start of the third act, there's a scene where one of the samurai apologies for his treatment of the half breed in a way that communicates to the viewer exactly where a Ronin places in the Japanese cultural/social structure vs where a Samurai does. The inclusion of this character and his treatment throughout the movie is an important plot device. Seeing his treatment by the Samurai as an outcast in the first act, then later his acceptance once they are labeled as Ronin is vital to the evolution of the main Japaneses characters of the story. Not to mention it helps to bridge a gap for an audience unfamiliar with Japanese cultural and social structure.Historical inaccuracy are common in Hollywood. I personally view the ones in 47 Ronin to be no more reprehensible then the ones committed in superheroes films. Yes, I am comparing changes made to characters from Batman, X-Men, Spiderman and Iron Man's cannon to this historical tale of the 47 Ronin. Deal with it, they're just stories after all. We really have no way to know it there really wasn't a half breed character, do we? After all, history is told by the winners, and often inaccurately.With a 2 hour run time, it did feel a bit slow to start, setting the stage for the second and third act. Once it gets going tho, it moved rather nicely. I didn't find myself checking my watch every 10 minutes wondering when it would end like another holiday release I won't mention. If the trailer interests you then you could probably do worst at the box office this holiday season. I enjoyed it, but that's just my opinion.
__label__8 Compared to 70% of the garbage in theaters, this movie is both quite deep and fun to watch.It is not a huge budget movie, it doesn't have a perfect script or story overall, but the acting was great and the overall fantasy feel to it mixed in with samurai lore was really enjoyable.I expected this movie to be less than average due to overall scores. Don't pay attention to them. I'll be purchasing the bluray after seeing it just now.It has a slower beginning but it helps give characters depth. The ending is also quite spectacular because you're involved with the ronin every step of the way. The last 1/3rd of the film is as usual where the major battles happen, but act two does not disappoint.In my books this is a 7.5/10, gave it an 8 as its under rated on here. Approach it as a really good B movie and you'll love it. If you expect an Oscar nominations and a $200 mil budget for this, you should probably not be reviewing these sorts of films.
__label__8 As this is a fantasy retelling of a historic event it takes liberties. However, for me it was about Honor above all else. I left the theater not only entertained and with a sense of pride in the story telling. As a veteran it resonates what I felt when we finished what we had to accomplish. I did not read the reviews going into today's viewing, however after I seen it I read the reviews and I think they got it wrong. This movie is very good with a lot of understatement and sometimes it gets fanciful but does not takeaway from the story telling. I believe if you go a see it you will be surprised how good it is.
__label__8 This is a fantasy movie set in early Japan instead of a medieval setting. It reminded me of Snow White and the Huntsman. At its core it's about honor and forbidden love. This movie requires much disbelief, not the least of which is believing that Keanu Reeve would be there, but if you can make that leap it has much to offer. The movie has many magical moments and beautiful settings, and the vision of early Japan, with a fantasy spin, is wonderful.The thing I was most impressed by was the way the movie incorporated many styles seamlessly. The movie went from fantasy, to Indian Jones, to pirates of the Caribbean, with a natural even flow, and I really enjoyed that. The only flaw was one of the villains that seemed one dimensional and stock, but the stories villains as a whole had depth, and were major part of the stories ending and power. This movie was unlike any I've seen in a while. It's an idea that deviates from the norm, and this explains some of the reviews. This movie far exceeded my expectations.
__label__8 OK, so I've been wanting to see this "Film" for about a month and a half. And yet Hollywood is going to slam it for not being, The Last Samurai, which I really enjoy, or 300. 47 Ronin is one of these films that gains traction after its DVD release. It's a one of those films that has stage presence, without the song! I guess what kept me engaged in this "Film", was the simple fact that the West is still waiting for that EPIC martial arts movie. Not this Dancing on the tree tops crap. And though this movie lacked DTS, I didn't go to the theater to see it loudly, I went to see a mysterious retelling of 47 Masterless Samurai stage a Cou d'eta knowing damn well they're going to get tried for Treason. I went to go see Keanue Reeves flex his acting skills outside the realm of the Matrix, which he did well...he's not the same Keanue from the early 90's. His acting is not pretentious like Tom Cruise, Keanue plays humble very well. I'd like to think there is likely a Directors Cut of this FILM, and I can't wait until March or April when this will probably come out on Disc. On IMDb.com I gave it an initial 9 out of 10 stars but because it lacked EPIC like 300, I dumbed it down to 8. I liked the Film overall because all the Characters were portrayed well by their Actors and Actresses. ( Side note: Keanue Reeves plays more of a supporting role than a lead role.) HHollywood critics can eat a bag crap, some people in the West have a good perspective of the East, nice Vision.
__label__8 Captain America: The Winter Soldier is the third film in Phase 2 of the Marvel Cinematic Universe (after last year's Iron Man 3 and Thor: The Dark World). Compared with the mighty giant green monster, the hammer wielding Norse thunder god or the 'genius, philanthropist, billionaire, playboy' armor man, the Captain was never quite as appealing as the rest of the 'Unusuals'. Steve Rogers is portrayed as an old-fashioned, straightforward, honest, courageous, sincere, patriotic superhero. This makes him a less-interesting, boring character. Moreover, as Tony Stark said it, "Everything special about you came out of a bottle!"Most film-goers would know that Marvel films are famous for its bright, fun and not-so-serious approach to its storytelling, together with some catchy, witty dialogues. This film is a game changer in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. This time around, Marvel decided to take a different approach on things: To make a Captain America sequel with a more serious, darker plot development and more face-to-face close-range hand combat fights. What should have been a typical superhero film, now becomes a conspiracy-espionage thriller.Two years after the events that happened in New York city, the Captain still struggles with adjusting himself to the modern world, with no apparent social life or girl friend, which is why Natasha/Black Widow tries to introduce or recommend him some cute girls in S.H.I.E.L.D. for him to date with. He is shocked when he learns that the very governmental organisation he is working for is not what it seems to be, as the Cap said in the trailer, "This isn't freedom. This is fear". Soon, he finds himself entangled in a conspiracy that puts millions of innocent lives at risk.The film comes with excellent, fast-paced action choreography. Although the cinematography is a bit dodgy due to the shaky-cam techniques used for depicting the chaotic moments, the fight scenes between the Winter Soldier and the Captain is fantastic and serves as one of the film's highlights. The audience finally gets to see how the Captain's shield is utilised effectively in both offensive and defensive combat situations. It also good to see again how Natasha kicks ass in the film.All actors delivered a pretty decent performance in the film. Once again, Chris Evans and Scarlett Johannson both proved that they fit their roles well, adding more depth to the characters they portray in the film. Sam Wilson/Falcon is a welcome addition to the Marvel franchise and hopefully he will appear again in the Avengers sequel. Unfortunately, despite the film's title, the winter soldier is not a complex villain and doesn't appear much in the film. It's such a shame to just show him as a formidable physical fighter who's capable of challenging the Captain.The film is well-scripted, filled with suspense while highlighting some important socio-political issues such as government surveillance and control in its storytelling. Although the twists in the film is predictable and fairly easy to guess, the sequel is a marked improvement compared to its predecessor, Captain America: The First Avenger. The story unfolds gradually and comes with huge, surprising developments by the end of the film. Marvel Cinematic Universe is not going to be the same again. What's going to happen next? How the story is going to progress in Avengers: Age of Ultron, after what had happened in this film? Interesting.Rating: 8.5/10http://yjcool.blogspot.com/2014/03/movie-review-captain-america- winter.htmlBe warned. This is not the typical fun, 'not-so-serious', entertaining Marvel film that you used to watch in the past. You might like it or find it a bore. In order to recognize some of the characters in the film, you need to remember some of Marvel's Phase One films. Most importantly, you need to watch Captain America: The First Avenger before watching this to understand the plot.Note: Guess you don't need me to remind you to stay for the mid-credit and post-credit scenes. It foreshadows what's going to happen next by introducing a lesser-known supervillain and two new characters, 'Miracles' (another name for 'mutants' because of screen rights issues) which going to be in the Avengers sequel, Age of Ultron. It further confirms that one of weapons depicted in The Avengers is indeed one of the six infinity stones.
__label__8 On March 19, Marvel and Disney withdrew a ban on the publication of any reviews and reviews of the over-coming spring blockbuster "The First Avenger: Another War." They were removed because it was on this day that a special, first in Russia closed film was shown at the Oktyabr cinema. Unfortunately, no photographs could be made, since Marvel on similar premieres usually requires to hand over at the entrance to the hall all electronic devices. But, nevertheless, the film itself is important.After the attempt on the very director of "Shield" Nick Fury, it becomes clear that the traitors are deep inside the organization itself. Captain America is involved in a large-scale villainous action to destroy disagreeable "Hydra" personalities. Moreover, he, like the Black Widow, is wanted as a possible supporter of a secret conspiracy. Now he can trust only himself. In addition to everything, a mysterious masked man appears on the scene, known as the Winter Soldier, who has practically the same powers as Steve Rogers himself.Nothing more on the subject can not say, since it will necessarily entail spoilers, because the movie is directly packed full of intrigues and incredible plot twists. During the show, the hall repeatedly exploded with applause at the next plot move.As a person who has watched repeatedly any of the existing Marvel films, I can say that "The First Avenger 2" can rightfully be considered one of the best, filmed by the studio. The fact is that after the plague success of the "Avengers" abounding with colorful characters, you involuntarily begin to compare each next film with them. In my opinion, Thor is the weakest hero in order to play solo. If not for the charismatic Loki, the film in general would be very weak. The first "Captain" also did not differ in any scale and originality of the plot, but in the sequel everything is quite different.
To begin with, the second part has grown significantly in terms of special effects. It is understandable - after all, the action takes place already in the modern world, and not during the Second World War. In addition to this company Cap was composed of Nick Fury (Samuel Jackson) and the red-haired beauty of the Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson), as well as the new character Sokol (Anthony Maki). All this ensemble is simply superbly interacting with each other, succeeding and joking, and even add a small share of romance. (No blueness, it's all right). Scarlett Johansson has a lot of time, which allows her character and true intentions to be revealed. It makes no sense to say something about the acting, because these characters are performed by the same actors for the first time.There are a lot of questions in the film, which remain almost unanswered. Why was the attempt on Nick Fury committed? Who is behind this? Who is this Winter Soldier and where did he come from? Who can be trusted when there are only traitors around? Fortunately, you will certainly know the answers by the end of the film. By the way, it is worth saying that the ending leaves room for trikvela, which, of course, will be.As I wrote earlier, you involuntarily compare any solo film of heroes from the Avengers with the Avengers themselves. So the "First Avenger" can easily compete with the flagship team of superheroes. The plot is twisted much more seriously, than there, jokes and references also suffice in excess. The only drawback of the film - the absence of the agent Phil Colson, which has long been an integral part of the Marvel blockbuster. If someone does not know, the most charming agent of SHIELD does not actually die in Avengers. This is seen in the series "Agents SHIELD", which also produces now Marvel.
The picture was shown to us in the IMAX 3D format. And I must say that it looks really cool. Again, comparing with the scale of the "Avengers", the spectacle here is no worse. And somewhere even better. It can be seen that the creators tried to do without the use of computer graphics in those places where it was possible. Therefore, the natural filming in the film is much more than artificially drawn episodes.In short, strange as it may sound, "The First Avenger: Another War" is different from any other Marvel movie. At least because of the fact that there is not all tied up on the steep heroes and fatal beauties. Here you will find also a certain hidden subtext, which someone, perhaps, will make you think. After all, Captain America is not just another superhero. This is the most patriotic man in America, her symbol. By the will of fate, he was not in his time and not in his world, but he had to make up for what he had missed in 70 years. He is tormented by a sense of guilt and a feeling that he is not the one who needs this world. But only a real hero is able to find the strength to forget about himself and fight for his friends.And finally, the remark about the localization of the film's name. Someone will find it funny how our distributors translated this title. But I assure you, they did it for a reason. "Other War" in this case conveys the meaning of the film better than the original name itself.
__label__8 Captain America continues where it left off from the first movie and the Avengers.Chris Evans did a good Johnny Storm in Fantastic Four and does an even better as Steve Rogers.The movie is fast paced with lots of action that keeps you glued to the screen. New weaponry, spectacular fight scenes, introduction of new characters and possible love interest for Captain America.Jackson, Evans and Johansson put in some good performances and the chemistry between characters new and old was good, very believable.There is a strong emphasis on trust in relationship for all the characters and a sprinkle of political interference which was developed throughout the movie.The film has the customary spectacular ending which does not disappoint. There are some flashback done very well. Good surprises, twist and turns, which you probably wont have anticipated.This film is a great addition to the Captain American franchise and is vastly superior to the Thor and Iron Man nonsense.I cant wait for the next installment of Captain America
__label__8 On the day that Shrek rescued the cursed Princess Fiona from the tower where she was kept prisoner of the dragon, her parents King Harold and the Queen were ready to sign a contract with the cunning Rumpelstiltskin delivering the kingdom Far Far Away to him. On the present days, Shrek feels bored with Fiona, his family and friends and near a breakdown, and he misses the years when he was a terrifying ogre. Rumpelstiltskin overhears a discussion between Shrek and Fiona and meets Shrek, offering a deal to make he feels a frightening ogre again. In return, Shrek should deliver one day of his childhood to Rumpelstiltskin. Shrek is lured and Far Far Away is distorted under the reign of the tricky Rumpelstiltskin. Now Shrek misses his family and friends and has to win Fiona's heart again to save Far Far Away, his friends and himself. I have just watched "Shrek Forever After" and my expectations were very low, based on the IMDb user's rating and a couple of reviews that I had glanced. However I liked this underrated animation a lot, which has a good story with many hilarious moments. Once again, Donkey "steals the movie" and this character has been for years the best role of the wasted Eddy Murphy. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Shrek para Sempre" ("Shrek Forever After")
__label__8 "Shrek Forever After" is a surprisingly good film. Though it is not as great as "Shrek" or "Shrek 2" it is a HUGE improvement over "Shrek the Third." The movie helped the franchise gain some of its heart back that was lacking in the third film and had some terrific action scenes. The first time I saw it I didn't think it was very funny, but when I went back to see it a second time I was laughing plenty of times. The film also teaches an important lesson that if you have a good life you should not give it up for anything. If Shrek had never met Fiona or any of his friends they all would have had rough lives. Overall, the movie is a great conclusion to the film series.
__label__8 It's not really cool to like Dreamworks Animation anymore. Sure, they're not Pixar. Sure, they're too hung up on star power and pop culture references. But I've still enjoyed the majority their films more than I have a lot of what's out there. And I love the first two "Shrek" movies. Their funny, entertaining, terrifically animated, and, too me, some of the best animated love stories that have been made. Most fairy tale romances perpetuate the idea that love is for beautiful people (even the masterpiece "Beauty and the Beast" has it's cake and eats it too on this point), and Princes and Princesses are better than common people. "Shrek"'s idea of finding happiness in who you are was much more palatable to me. i found the first film a delight, and the second even better.But the third was only okay. The humor wasn't nearly as clever or funny, and the heart just wasn't there like it used to be. "Shrek Forever After" isn't as good as those first two. But it's a big step back in the right direction.The story begins with Shrek getting used to being a father. He loves Fiona and the kids, but he misses his old life as a menacing ogre. He's seen more as a lovable tourist attraction now, and he doesn't like it. So, he makes a deal with the mysterious Rumpletiltskin (surprisingly NOT voiced by a name actor) to get one day back in his old life. In exchange, he gives up one day from his past. A day from his childhood that he doesn't even remember.Unfortuntaely, that day turns out to be the day he was born, and this leads to an "It's a Wonderful Life" scenario where Shrek doesn't know Fiona, Donkey, Puss-in-Boots, or any of his friends, and Rumplestiltskin rules the Kingdom with a tiny iron fist. The resulting story is a great deal of fun, with Fiona now a warrior leading an ogre rebellion, the Gingerbread Man fighting as a gladiator against Animal Crackers, and so forth. The humor isn't back to it's highest heights, but there are a good number of genuine laughs. And the heart is back bigtime. I found "Shrek Forever After" surprisingly touching..Okay, it's not as good as "Toy Story 3" is likely to be, nor is it as good as "How to train your Dragon". but I had a blast with "Shrek Forver After" and can't wait to take my niece and nephew
__label__8 Shrek (Voiced by Mike Myers) is suffering an mid-life crisis. He hasn't happy with his life, especially having his soul-mate Princess Fiona (Voiced by Cameron Diaz) and his three children. Shrek misses the old days, when everyone was afraid of him. Rumpelstiltskin (Voiced by Walt Hohrn) gives him an chance to re-live his old life for an day by singing an contract. At first, Shrek is happy until he discovers that his best friend Donkey (Voiced by Eddie Murphy) doesn't remember him and Shrek isn't married. He finds himself in an alternative universe. Now Shrek has to find Princess Fiona to convinced her, they had an life together once. But Rumpelstiltskin has other plans for Shrek.Directed by Mike Mitchell (Deuce Bigelow:Male Gigolo, Sky High, Surviving Christmas) made an enjoy fourth "Shrek" film in the series. It is certainly better than "Shrek the Third" and probably even better than "Shrek 2" as well. Voice talents in the movie are terrific, especially new comer Hohrn as Rumpelstiltskin but it is Antonio Banderas as the voice of Puss in Boots steals the show. It is nice to see the new "Shrek" movie in Widescreen format as well. This is also an darker movie than the previous "Shrek" films. Since this is the final chapter, the series certainly ends well. Don't miss it. Digital Widescreen. (****/*****).
__label__8 Unlike Shrek the Third, This has some funny jokes and a better villain.
__label__8 What was so great about the first Shrek film was the relationship between the characters and the world that was created for this film. The relationship between Shrek, Donkey, Fiona and all the other characters was ironclad in its design. The world created for Shrek – the fact that he is an Ogre, lives in the woods and is feared by most, but not by his friends, was just wonderful fun. I feel the Shrek Franchise made a mistake, when they went away from what they established in the first film, by moving the Shrek "family of characters" into a new setting, which is being King and Queen of the Kingdom of Far Far Away, with the supporting cast falling in line behind them and changing the setting from the woods to the Kingdom. In the second and third films I felt we lost some of what Shrek was all about. It seemed to take on a form that had been seen time and time again in other films. It lost its luster and became boring. So, it was nice to see this film (#4), try to recapture that magic by channeling elements found in the first film, by using a unique-device (I have been calling it the J.J. Abrams approach), by having Shrek's past changed by a devious "bad guy", thus removing the King and Queen scenario and creating a situation much like the first film. How would it do? Even though the second and third films had problems maintaining my interest, what they did have was laughs and great animation. Well the laughs have been all used up by the time we get to this film. Donkey's character almost was invisible. The bad guy, in this case was Rumpelstiltskin, seemed to be a carbon-copy of all the other antagonists from the previous films and the supporting characters, including the ridiculous Dragon, have run out of gas. We have an idea that starts out great, but is mired down by a tired formula, with not many laughs. I did enjoy the army of witches that Rumpelstiltskin had at his command. The animation does look fantastic and that is boosted by the witches appearances. They actually were scary. I was disappointed with this film because of it not being funny, but the great animation, the witches and rehashing what made Shrek great makes it the second best film of the series.
__label__8 I'm a big fan of the first two Shrek movies. The first Shrek, in particular, was a hilarious, heartfelt and original delight. Whilst Shrek 2 couldn't match the first film's originality, it was still a hugely enjoyable piece of entertainment. With Shrek The Third, the franchise ground to a halt. I don't hate Shrek The Third; I just find it sluggish, stuffed with too many characters and lacking ideas. So, it was with some trepidation that I approached Shrek Forever After.Thankfully, Shrek Forever After is a fitting finale for the franchise; it is very funny, sweet and, through a nice Wonderful Life-like twist, it shows us the characters we all know and love in a different light.Shrek (voice of Mike Myers) is having a midnight crisis. Despite living happily with his wife Fiona (voice of Cameron Diaz) and their three children, Shrek longs for the days when he was feared by the townspeople, instead of the tourist attraction that he has now become. After Shrek's pent-up anger is unleashed during his daughter's first birthday, he is tricked by the devious Rumpelstiltskin into signing a deal which will allow him to live as a real ogre for one day at the expense of one day from his life. In his "ogre" day, Shrek realised that Rumpelstiltskin has stolen the day he was born; this means that Shrek never met Donkey, Puss in Boots or any of his other friends, and he didn't save Fiona from the tower. Shrek soon finds his friends, but they're not how he remembers them. Together, they must battle against Ruimpelstiltskin, who has taken over Far Far Away, and Shrek must find a way to reverse Rumpelstiltskin's magic before his day is over, or he will disappear from existence.Shrek Forever After succeeds where Shrek the Third failed because it returns to the charm of its characters and its story. Shrek the Third relied more on its (admittedly eye-popping) visuals, hit-and-miss pop-culture jokes and stunt casting (hello, Mr. Timberlake) than on creating a strong story or in taking its characters on an entertaining, interesting journey. Shrek Forever After rectifies all of these mistakes; the pop-culture gags are few and far in-between, with most of the film's humour coming from characters and their situations. There is no obvious stunt casting here, but that works to the film's advantage. Ever heard of Walt Dohrn? No, me neither. But he damn near steals the film as the tricky Rumpelstiltskin, his vocal performance a blast of snivelling razzmatazz. Plus, new director Mike Mitchell and screenwriters Josh Klausner and Darren Lemke do funny, new things with familiar characters. For example, whereas Puss in Boots was a swarthy swashbuckler, in the alternate universe he resembles a balloon covered in fur, who can't move without it being an Olympian task (one moment where he's struggling to, um, lick himself leads to the funniest use of his famous "ahhhh" eyes in the series). Whereas Fiona is a tired housewife in Shrek's real universe, in the alternate universe she is the tough, sexy (hey, I'm a hot-blooded male) rebel leader of the Ogre resistance against Rumpelstiltskin. Mitchell, Klausner and Lemke clearly have a lot of fun twisting our expectations of what the characters will do or what will happen to them, and I had a lot of fun with them. There is one death scene (shock!) which comes out of mid-field, and is even more hilarious as a result.The vocal work is strong. Mike Myers excels here as Shrek; he brings a real sense of human weariness and sarcastic wit to a fairytale character, which grounds him in reality. Shrek's midlife struggle with the loss of the spark in his life before he met Fiona will ring true with many viewers; many people, in the middle of a marriage, will look back on their freer days with a sense of nostalgia and wish they could re-live them again. Shrek's fault is that he doesn't realise what he has until he loses it. Cameron Diaz excels in both personalities; the tired but loving wife and the Xena-like warrior, the latter in which she particularly seems to be letting loose and having a lot of fun. Eddie Murphy and Antonio Banderas are their usual hilarious selves, both of them taking advantage of their characters and their new situations, with Banderas relishing his character's pampered lifestyle as Fiona's pet and Murphy still getting big laughs out of his chatterbox sidekick. The supporting cast is filled with talented actors, most notably Craig Robinson, Glee's Jane Lynch and Mad Men's Jon Hamm as members of the Ogre resistance.The animation here is beautifully done and highly detailed. One caveat; as anyone who has seen the advertising knows, this film is being shown in 3D. The 3D isn't a distraction, as in Alice in Wonderland and (from what I've heard) Clash of the Titans; it's just doesn't necessarily add anything either. It's just there. In Avatar and How to Train Your Dragon, the 3D deepened the sense of immersion into an imaginary world. Here, it seems more perfunctory than anything else. So my advice is to see this in 2D and save your money.Shrek Forever After erases the disappointment of Shrek the Third. There is a familiarity to the story which stops it from reaching the heights of the first film, but it is enjoyable enough to be on the same level as Shrek 2. This is a thoroughly entertaining conclusion to the Shrek legacy, and I'm going to miss the big guy.
__label__8 In an age of dark, grim visions of the future Disney's Tomorrowland is a delightful throwback to upbeat adventures of the 60s and 80s, a retro sci-fi film for the whole family to enjoy.Casey Newton (Britt Robertson) is a bright and optimistic high school student who does not share the pessimistic views of elders. When Casey discovers a mysterious pin that shows her fantastic world and sets out to find the futuristic city with the help of a jaded inventor, Frank Walker (George Clooney) and Athena (Raffey Cassidy), an English-accented Audio-Animatronics.Tomorrowland is a deliberately old-fashioned film both its tone and visuals: the film was loosely based on the Disney ride of the same name - considering that Disney were able to turn Pirates of the Caribbean into a billion dollar film series. Bird was a wise choice to direct and co-write, The Incredibles had a 60s style sci-fi look to it and he brought that look to Tomorrowland. It was bright and colourful with its showing of various technologies, from robots, jetpacks, lasers and a steampunk rocket.Brad Bird has already shown himself to be a capable action director with Mission Impossible: Ghost Portrayal and with Tomorrowland he had much better CGI. There are some cool fight sequences, especially with Athena - it is awesome to see a little girl beating up fully grown men and giant robots. Tomorrowland is visually spectacular especially when we get to see the city in all its glory for the first time. Bird certainly brought out a sense of awe, whimsy and wonder.Tomorrowland also has a great trio in the leads: Clooney, Robertson and Cassidy are terrific together, having many witty moments together when they are travelling and there is a zip in their interactions, like when they use a knock-out tool. Although Robertson's look too old to be a high schooler she pushes off the necessary enthusiasm. But it was Cassidy who stole the show: she was a revelation as Athena, playing a character who was older than she actually looked and at times acts a Terminator. She personally reminded me of Saoirse Ronan when she was younger, just with dark hair.Although Tomorrowland had a talented director at the helm it also had a screenplay with Damon Lindelof's fingerprints, a man who has poor reputation as a screenwriter. As an adventure Tomorrowland is excellent but when it goes to the science fiction the film gets bogged down with mumbo-jumbo about time particles and destiny. This part needed to be expanded and more refined. When it's revealed that Tomorrowland was a place for exceptional people to come to where they would not disrupted by government or civil society. Essentially this is similar to Ayn Rand's Atlas Shrugged, a controversial sci-fi work that abdicates the philosophy of Objectivism, or if you prefer it's the ideology of Andrew Ryan in Bioshock. The prologue at the 1964 World's Fair could have been cut and it would have made the reveals more impactful.Tomorrowland is a good of romp of a film, providing plenty of laughs, action and visual spectcle. It was rated a 12A in the UK but it is on lower scale of that rating and could easily be enjoyed by children younger than that age.
__label__8 This movie really took a person's imagination to a whole new level.The story was interesting, and keeps a person engaged with what is happening. It was cool to see the power of imagination and how a simple thought could become something much bigger.Frank Walker, played by George Clooney, was recognized by his limitless imaginative capability. It was going to one day change the world as it is. He was able to do just that. Walker was a genius scientist who made a certain discovery about Tomorrowland that would hold the key to changing the world. With the help from Casey Newton, played by Britt Robertson, Walker was able to travel to the city and unravel what he had discovered so long ago.This movie has a simple story, and it is ideal for those with a creative and innovative imagination.
__label__8 A bit uneven and too long (It takes the movie about 30 minutes to really kick into gear). Otherwise I enjoyed the plot of slowly figuring out what is Tomorrowland and what's the purpose behind it all. So it's not a perfect film but a long way from the failure it's made out to be. Brad Bird doesn't disappoint.I have read quite a lot of negative comments about this movie and even its message and I find that to be slightly odd. From saying science should only concentrate on inventions instead of research to being annoyingly preachy. God forbid if a movie has a message these days and despite it having an agenda I thought the movie was fun and entertaining.I personally found the message of the movie to be pro-science and to fight the cynicism and apathy that makes it seem it's impossible to save the world from the direction we're going in. I usually feel there's no hope for the human race but I like to see movies that try to convince me otherwise and try to keep the small glimmer of hope alive.
__label__8 I looked forward to this movie since seeing the trailers. The stunning visual of Britt Roberts transported to an other worldly place, then George Clooney asking "do you want to go?". Seriously? Heck yea! Maybe I'm a hopeless romantic, but I enjoy stories that hold out the promise of adventure mixed with hope and some genuine magic. I was not disappointed. Tomorrowland hit all the right points with me--adventure, mystery, characters to love and root for, surprise story twists, laugh out loud moments, and, the best magic of all, hope. Saw it twice, second time with grand kids. I will be adding Tomorrowland to my Disney collection.
__label__8 The only reason I didn't give it a higher review was that as an avid sci-fi reader, I can't help but notice plot holes and improbabilities in the time travel scenario as depicted. Aside from that, the movie was tautly written and dealt with some pretty heavy themes regarding environmental destruction and war. It was pretty incredible seeing the antagonist deliver some scathing denunciations of our current society, this in a Disney flick. Tautly written, family friendly, kick ass female robot and protagonist, plus George Clooney. Great entertainment with thought provoking, continually evolving plot twists. It is not a dark, depressing movie and doesn't cavil about promoting a positive future available to us as a result of our current choices.
__label__8 So, before I get to the movie, a word about some of the negative reviews here. Wow, there are so many! I'm not sure if they saw the same movie as I did, or if they are all just devoid of a sense of wonder and fun, but there are an awful lot of people that really disliked this movie. Of course, when you read their "arguments" (I'll be generous and call them that), you realize that most of their discontent stems from the fact that they thought the movie was going to be something else entirely.I'm one of the most cynical and jaded moviegoers going and I'm always ready to rip a new celluloid butthole in any film that deserves it, but this film does not warrant some of the comments here. When I see people complaining this movie is too violent, or that it isn't a family movie, or any of the number of bemusing complaints, I wonder if they aren't exactly the kind of people that this movie warns its viewers about. Namely, those so obsessed with negativity, that they can't accept anything that is fun.This movie surprised me, because I had heard bad things about it and it was, in part, penned by Damon Lindelof, whose work it is fair to say I find by turns amusing (not in a good way) and irritating. I'm not sure how much of the story is down to him, but regardless, this counts as one of his better efforts in my book.So what will you get when you sit down to watch this movie? You'll get two hours or so of utterly harmless fun, aimed primarily at kids, but with enough more adult themes in it to entertain the adults among us. That said, it isn't at all offensive, or violent, and it isn't boring. It moves along at a decent pace. There are slower moments in it, but the action scenes move along briskly when they appear, and they appear quite often. Any violence on display at all is aimed squarely at robots.There is only one scene where I exclaimed out loud in surprise, because I wasn't expecting it at all, and that was when the little girl robot gets hit by a pickup truck out of nowhere. It's a bit of a shock, to be honest, but she is quickly shown to be unharmed by the incident. However, it might frighten some younger children for a moment, so be warned.I think a lot of the negativity this movie has received is down to the fact that at one point, the bad guy of the film (Hugh Laurie) spells out just how horrible people are and that their impending doom is entirely down to their own fault. There is a little speech that essentially blames people for their own lack of foresight and bone-idleness, which has led them to the brink of destruction.Now, I normally might find this sort of thing preachy and condescending, but it fits well in the context of the movie. However, some people, I think, aren't able to have fun poked at them and seem to have taken an unnecessary amount of offence at this, and taken it out on the movie as a whole.Despite this darker tone, the movie as a whole paints a hopeful vision, showing us that we can change our future if we really want to. The ending is a little cheesy, but it is a good kind of cheese, with the message that it is never too late to make a change.Overall, the movie is just a fun flick for kids and their parents. Older teens might be bored a little, but younger kids will love it. It isn't meant to be taken too seriously, but just enjoyed for what it is.Oh and for the person that suggested the movie was unsuitable for any child under fourteen, your kids have my sympathies. Oh my God! Their lives must be filled with so much cotton wool padding that they are perpetually on the verge of smothering to death. Good job!SUMMARY: Way more fun than its rating would have you believe. Generally harmless entertainment of a family nature. Don't take the negativity seriously, because the movie never takes itself seriously. Its fun, that's all there is to it.
__label__8 Who would have thought that one of the most imaginative films of the last five years would be a film targeted at children? Tomorrowland was a pleasant surprise. There were a ton of really amazing scenes and a grand sense of scale. The cast is magnificent. George Clooney is great as always. However, it must be mentioned that Raffey Cassidy almost steals the show. She is definitely one to watch and as long as she avoids the pitfalls that go with fame, she is pretty much guaranteed a very bright future in the acting business.The story is compelling and has a good message -- without sounding preachy. Lots of great classic science fiction homages in here, plus plenty of very cool modern ideas. It was great to see three generations of future aesthetic in the same film.In general, the pacing is pretty good. There are a few parts where it drags a bit. It makes up for it in spades in the last half of the film. Editing was expertly done with plenty of quick reaction cuts between actors to thread things together neatly. As usual, Disney's shot choices are very good (very textbook actually) and the score suits the film nicely.Be sure to treat the kid(s) in your life (your children, nieces, nephews) and or course, yourself to this movie. It's one of the few modern family films that's actually genuinely enjoyable for all ages. Plus, you'll get to see some of Santiago Calatrava's more extravagant architecture.
__label__8 After watching Tomorrowland last night I have to say it is interesting and insane from Disney to create a movie like this.Like others I have seen the trailer for the movie. It was my nieces who asked me to watch it with them so I thought why not.The movie is not your normal Disney motion picture and I'm actually surprised that it got a PG rating. But more or less the film shall make you go WOW.The film has a original plot that you don't see too often also the visual effects are just breath taken they really brought their top talents to give us effects that will leave you in amazed. The Cast:George Clooney, Britt Robertson, Raffey Cassidy, Hugh Laurie made the film work with their performances George and Britt actually did a strong job in the film. There is also some good action that make you go that's insane. It actually surprised that they did this in a Disney movieHowever the film did stall a few times and part of the story didn't make any sense leaving you feel disappointed. Overall Tomorrowland took something different and ran with it so you might be surprised once you watch it.I give Tomorrowland an 8 out of 10
__label__8 The fact that this movie gets as many bad reviews and ratings as it does absolutely astonishes me, I'm very critical when it comes to movies with a "environmental message" like this, but I had no problem with it, it was delivered in a fun laid-back tone, and Clooney's performance was very sarcastic and cynical, I loved this movie for that reason. I don't watch Clooney often, but I'm happy he was in this.It simply tells a great story revealing "secrets" of the great minds of previous generations, and gives us plenty of back story and interesting laws that apply to "Tomorrowland" 5/7 would watch again.
__label__8 Honestly, I put off watching this because I didn't feel like I would enjoy it so much. I was proved wrong. Right from the start, the fresh animation of this film along with the brilliant editing and voice acting had me engaged. Though the plot is pretty flat and for kids, the concept is pretty new (in that it hasn't been totally overdone), dealing in robotics which allowed them to show some cool stuff. But the story being from Disney, did have moments of it being 'too easy' as well as a few stock characters but it wasn't such a big deal. The story was told well, and wasn't cheesy or boring at all. The freshness of the voices and the animation really put this film together.The connection between the voices and animation really showed on screen the chemistry between the characters, and this worked to gain the sympathy of the viewer's at certain scenes. I thought that was well done, the characters were developed well in relation to each other. And I know I keep saying this, but I just really like the animation, and the effects. Baymax is so cute, and the other character's have a kind of Asian feel to them. It's also quite cool how the animated characters almost always resemble the actors voicing them (I guess this is intentional).However, watching the trailer again, I notice that they miss some of the scenes out. I mean if you put it in the trailer, you've got to put it in the film! I would've liked to have seen the scene with Baymax and the soccer ball.Read more movie reviews at: championangels.wordpress.com
__label__8 This Disney computer animated film was advertised a good few months before the actual release, including cinemas with a large inflatable rubber versions of the recognisable leading robot character, I was very much looking forward to this feature. Basically fourteen year old robotics genius Hiro Hamada (Ryan Potter) lives in the futuristic city of San Fransokyo and spends his time participating in back-alley robot fights, his older brother Tadashi (Daniel Henney) worries he's wasting his potential, so he takes him to the robotics lab at his university, there Hiro meets Tadashi's friends GoGo Tomago (Sucker Punch's Jamie Chung), Wasabi (Damon Wayans Jr.), Honey Lemon (Genesis Rodriguez) and Fred (T.J. Miller). Hiro is also introduced to Baymax (Scott Adsit), a personal healthcare robot Tadashi created, amazed, Hiro decides to apply for the school, presenting his project - microbots, swarms of tiny robots that can link together in any arrangement imaginable - to gain admission, school robotics program head Professor Robert Callaghan (James Cromwell) is impressed and Hiro is accepted, but a fire breaks out at the university, Tadashi rushes to rescue Callaghan, but the building explodes and both are killed, Hiro secludes himself from others having lost his brother. One day, Hiro accidentally activates Baymax who responds to his cry of pain, i.e. "ouch", the robot notices one of Hiro's microbots moving in its jar and thinks it wants to go somewhere, Hiro and Baymax are led to an abandoned warehouse, there they discover that someone has been mass-producing Hiro's bots, before a masked man controlling them attacks and chases them out. Realising this masked man has stolen his project, Hiro decides to catch him, upgrading Baymax with high-tech armour and a battle chip, and he reunites with GoGo, Wasabi, Honey Lemon and Fred, the six form a superhero team, they are all attacked by the masked man but manage to get away. The group discovers a former lab of prestigious robotics company Krei Tech, it was experimenting teleportation technology, the test went wrong when the test pilot vanished into the unstable vortex, the masked man reveals himself as Profressor Callaghan, he stole Hiro's bots and used them to escape the fire. So Tadashi died in vain, Hiro angrily removes Baymax's healthcare chip, leaving him only the battle chip, and orders him to kill Callaghan, Baymax almost does so, until the healthchip is reinserted by Honey, and he is restored, angry for their interference Hiro leaves his friends and goes home where he breaks down. Baymax asks Hiron if killing Callaghan would improve his "emotional state", he is not sure, but to soften Hiro's loss Baymax plays several humorous video clips of Tadashi creating and running tests on him during Baymax's development, Hiro realises killing Callaghan is not what Tadashi would have wanted, so he makes amends with his friends. The group discovers that Callaghan wants revenge on Alistair Krei (Alan Tudyk), president of Krei Tech, because he blames him for the death of his daughter Abigail (Katie Lowes), she was the test pilot, so with newly formed armour and technological advances they team together to save Krei and stop Callaghan. The microbots are destroyed and Krei is saved, but the teleportation portal remains active and is imploding, Baymax detects that Abigail is still alive, trapped in hypersleep, in the abyss, he and Hiro race to save her, but with most of his armour lost Baymax realises the only way to save Hiro and Abigail is to propel them back out the portal with his remaining rocket fist, Hiro refuses to leave him, but Baymax insists and Hiro tearfully gives in, Hiro and Abigail make it back, and Callaghan is arrested. Sometime later Hiro is trying to move on, but he discovers Baymax's clenched rocket fist contains his healthcare chip (this contains his entire personality), delighted he rebuilds Baymax and they happily reunite, and with their four friends they continue helping those in need in the city, as Big Hero 6. Also starring Maya Rudolph as Cass, Abraham Benrubi as General, Billy Bush as Newscaster and Daniel Gerson as Desk Sergeant. The young leading character is a likable and sometimes vulnerable technological genius, his supporting friends all offer their good traits as well, but it is the hero's robot companion that steals the show with his kind and caring personality, and when he gets added extras he becomes much more the fantastic pal to have. This is supposed to be based on a comic book series, it apparently does not have much relation to the original, but that doesn't matter, the whole family will be enthralled by the high-octane fight, flying and chase sequences, as well as the tender moments, the references to western technology and culture is great, and the animation is superb, it is a fabulous animated superhero action comedy film. It won the Oscar for Best Animated Feature Film of the Year, it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Animated Feature Film, and it was nominated the Golden Globe for Best Animated Feature Film. Very good!
__label__8 My family got tickets to an early showing. The movie was excellent. The atmosphere was refreshingly different, the characters fleshed out, the plot touching, and the humor was rich and consistent . I would recommend this one to anyone, and especially to couples and families with children.Big Hero 6 really blew me away, I expected it to be good since Disney is having another animation renaissance but once the credits began to roll all I could do was wish it was longer. This movie has something for everyone, comedy, action, some despair. In fact, surprisingly the only thing missing was romance, which is fine with me. If you love superheroes, robots, and animated films, I think you've found your holy grail.
__label__8 Big Hero 6 [2014] is the Disney 3-D animated comedy action film that centers on Hiro Hamada, a 14-year old robotics prodigy, Baymax (an inflatable health companion robot) and an unlikely team of superheros. 5/5 graphics. Big Hero 6 transports viewers into a new visual realm and relatively individual style (besides its anime resemblance). The story is set in the futuristic city of 'San Fransokyo'. A little of Tokyo and San Francisco in one place. This explains the amalgamation of both Japanese and American components within the story and setting. It should be noted that Big Hero 6 is not a wholly original idea, and the animation is inspired by the Marvel comic by the very same name. Baymax. Voiced by Scott Adsit, this lovable robot is animated to appear soft, cuddly and adorable, credit goes to the graphics and writing team on this one. Hiro's close friendship with Baymax is a highlight. Baymax can hold his own on the screen alone too, just strolling through the city streets, caring for others health and well-being. So yeah, he's cute and he knows it. Expect to have a couple of teary moments. I won't describe or skim through details, out of utmost respect for those who haven't had a chance to see it yet. Since more serious topics aren't the usual in children targeted animation films, it's a nice change of pace. Fantastic message for the young'uns. The main character Hiro (voiced by Ryan Potter) and the rest of the superheros team study robotics at the local university (including T.J. Miller from Silicon Valley and Damon Wayans Jr from New Girl). Reach your potential, practice non-violence and exercise sacrifice. That's just the tip of the iceberg. There are more spoiler-worthy ones that will be omitted from this review entirely. By the way, it's not 'preachy' in the slightest.
__label__8 A childhood prodigy delivering on the grandest stage..awesome movie..just my kind of animation.plus there a humor that tickles you every time..although the ending is a bit sad. This kind of movie just make you like animated movies more and more as they depicts moves and effect that is never possible in a real movie..Moreover, the whole good robot turning into a more cooler dark robot but still retaining its good behavior is an apple to the eye..also the upcoming a a new hero in a movie is always welcome for the viewers..This kind of movie fits viewer of all ages..whether you are 9 or 30..just awesome..and by the ways..it is one of the best animated movie in 2014..lets hope for more sequels...i suggest every user to watch it..
__label__8 Big Hero 6 is not among the best that Disney has ever done and it isn't flawless. But it is still very good and one of their best easily since the Renaissance. It did feel a little rushed at times and felt like it tried to do a little too much in the storytelling, as a result some ideas that were introduced like the science-is-good message gets lost. If it slowed down and explored a little less areas it would have improved things. The villain felt underdeveloped and his reveal came over as very obvious and forced as well.However, the animation is outstanding with lots of rich colours and textures, backgrounds that are incredibly detailed and sweet(but not in a cloying way) character designs. One of the best-looking recent Disney films definitely. The catchy and upbeat yet atmospheric and emotion-filled soundtrack and smart script are other things to like, as are the brisk(when not rushed) pacing and rousing if not exactly inventive action. While the story is not flawless, on the most part it's still a winner. Whatever originality it may lack, it more than compensates for that with fun and heart. There are plenty of funny moments(i.e. Stan Lee), and of the laugh-out-loud witty kind and even better is the emotional impact Big Hero 6 has. The brother-brother relationship is handled very affectingly, like between Anna and Elsa in Frozen it was Disney trying to explore a different kind of relationship than they did before and it succeeds in that respect.Sure Big Hero 6 sometimes takes a dark tone but not in a heavy or inappropriate way, there's no reason why anybody should be disturbed by that. The characters are not the most developed ones there ever were and as said more should have been done with the villain, but they're still engaging. Hiro is a very flawed but still likable main protagonist and his relationship between brother Tadashi is beautifully done. The most memorable character for me though was Baymax, he has to be one of Disney's most adorable characters, along with Maximus(Tangled) and Sven(Frozen) he has one of their cutest since the Renaissance. As well as being beautifully designed he displays a lot of laughs and a wide range of emotions, literally the film's heart and soul. The voice work from all(I just wish that James Cromwell had more to do) is very good, with particular mention going to Scott Adsit and his voice is a good match with Ryan Potter's deeply felt Hiro. All in all, not one of Disney's best but one of their better ones of the past 15 years. Haven't seen all the Best Animated Feature nominees but while this viewer did prefer How to Train Your Dragon 2 and the un-nominated Lego Movie they still felt that Big Hero 6 was still a good enough film to merit an Oscar nomination. 8/10 Bethany Cox
__label__8 On the one hand I can understand why this film makes people uncomfortable.For starters it takes place in "San Fran Tokyo" (?) and the core premise for the story is that it is "OK" to start an animation film clearly targeted for kids with a double homicide.That does take some getting used to.Oddly like its subjects (kids who experiment) there is a lot of experimentation taking place here too.There are some things I have never seen before in an animated film and quite liked.Other bits did not work as well.Anyway, for breaking new ground, I gave it an 8.Maybe history will be kinder. And maybe it won't
__label__8 Honestly, I didn't have very high expectations for 'Big Hero 6', considering that I'm usually not a fan of Marvel's works, but I was gladly proved wrong.Story wise, 'Big Hero 6' is rather formulaic and not too outstanding, but it's still very entertaining due to the way it balances all aspects. You have everything: drama that's not over the top but still touching, thrilling action, great comedy, and some okay twists. And more importantly, they all mix together perfectly, so you'll never get bored or frustrated, and at the same time, you will feel connected with the characters as they deal with some mature conflicts rarely seen in recent Disney products. A huge part of this accomplishment is thanks to the character Baymax. The guy is amazingly likable, steals every scene he's in, and has great contributions to every part of the movie. When the movie needs drama, he provides the sensitivity and cuteness, when it needs action, he's the coolest, and when it needs comedy, he's the funniest. His voice acting by Scott Adsit is also great as he sounds both emotional and cute, despite the robotic voice effects.The rest of the characters, however, are hit and miss. Hiro is cool, and I like the way he deals with grief: quite mature and not excessive, though his voice doesn't sound like a 14-year-old. The other two boys in the group are okay because they tend to break away from stereotypes. But the others, including the main villains, are just cliché and forgettable.Visually, 'Big Hero 6' is very stunning, mainly due to the lively San Fransokyo and the impressive effects. Personally, I find some of the action scenes in this to be the most cinematic and thrilling I've ever seen in animation. All of the camera movements, slow-motions, and lighting and explosion effects easily rival the best live-action blockbusters out there. Moreover, the characters' visual designs are also more imaginative than other recent Disney products'. This is especially true for Baymax, who is surprisingly expressive despite the minimalistic looks. 'Big Hero 6' is no masterpiece, and it may not be up to the standards of Pixar's classics or Dreamworks' 'How to Train Your Dragon', but nonetheless, it's still a greatly entertaining and well-made movie. I also love that it still leaves a lot open for the sequels as I now really look forward to them.
__label__8 Got to see an advances screening of Wreck-it Ralph today. I had been waiting for at least a year for this film and it did not disappoint. I am a hardcore Disney fanboy and was before I even played my first video game. But I have to be honest, sometimes Disney doesn't get it. They see something is trending and an instant money maker and jump head first even if they don't understand the topic they're tackling. So it does make you wonder if they could really do justice to a film dedicated to something they really don't excel in. Video games are not Disney's strong suit(except for the rare cases like Kingdom Hearts, which really only succeeds, because they have little to nothing to do with the production). Trust me I've played enough cheap marketing/movie tie in/ buy it for your kid because of the characters on the box Disney games to know what I'm talking about.But Wreck-it Ralph nailed it. Start to Finish it is a love letter to gaming, made by people who understand games(and I highly suspect John Lasseter's role as Executive Producer greatly contributed to it's excellence).It really reminded me of why we love games. It's not the technology or the graphics or the marketing hype. It's what they make us feel. The broad range of emotions they extract from us as we immerse ourselves in their world. The joy of victory, the stinging pain of loss, laughter and even tears. I felt all of those in this movie. The world has become an ugly place and personally, my faith is what gets me through. But when you experience a game or a movie that takes you to an imaginative world where anything is possible, things start to seem a little brighter. Those stacks of paperwork you're facing seem smaller. The grisly news headlines get a little further away. That's what art and beauty do. They heal; help us see things in a better light. And I thank God for them.I didn't expect for the movie to get me waxing philosophical, but that's the kind of hairpin I am.Side notes: I was a little disappointed that they lingered SO long in one environment and I, frankly, find the crude humor tiresome. I thought the 3D was excellent, providing a nice immersive depth and texture without ever seeming gimicky( and I'm not a die hard 3D fan). Also, be sure to get there in time for the short at the beginning, Paper Man. Reminded me of classic Disney animated shorts, and that is not a bad thing.A few weeks ago I was leaving California Adventure Park and overheard a little boy talking to his father about Wreck-it Ralph. With the wide eyed enthusiasm of youth he said to his father, "It's a movie about video games....who doesn't like that?" Well said, kid, well said.
__label__8 The clumsy Wreck-It Ralph has been the villain of his video game for thirty years, destroying a residential building while Fix-It Felix uses his powerful hammer to rebuild what Ralph has destroyed. During the celebration of the thirtieth anniversary of the game, Ralph is not invited to the party since nobody loves him. Ralph decides to win a medal to become a hero and he goes to the game Hero's Duty, commanded by the tough Sergeant Calhoun, where he sees the chance of winning the medal. Ralph collects the aimed medal, but when he is returning to his game, he brings accidentally one enemy Cy-Bug with him. Ralph accidentally crashes his plane in the kart-racing game Sugar Rush and loses his medal. When he is ready to retrieve it, the annoying glitch Vanellope von Schweetz takes the medal and uses it to dispute a kart racing in her game. Meanwhile Felix is seeking out Ralph to tell him that their game will be shut down since he is missing. Felix meets Sergeant Calhoun that tells him that the Cy-Bug would destroy any game and he immediately falls in love with her. Ralph helps Vanellope to build her own racing car and becomes her hero; but soon he is convinced by King Candy that Vanellope is just a glitch and she may destroy Sugar Race. Ralph destroys her car and her dreams expecting to protect Vanellope. But when he sees her picture on the cabinet of Sugar Race, he learns that something is wrong in the explanation of King Candy."Wreck-It Ralph" is a delightful animation by the Walt Disney studios with the story of the sweetest arcade villain I have ever seen. The clumsy Ralph and his existential crisis are hilarious and the animation is a great tribute to the fans of the early video games arcade. Despite my age, I am a fan of animations and "Wreck-It Ralph" is another entertaining release by Disney, with a beautiful message of friendship. My vote is eight.Title (Brazil): "Detona Ralph" ("Detonate Ralph")
__label__8 This is a great movie.For someone who grew up with computer games from their conception, I found lots of little nuggets in here to make me smile.The story is surprisingly sophisticated for a cartoon and the characters are quite fleshed out considering its target audience.I saw this at the pictures and I was glued. The child we took to see it (and some others in the cinema) didn't seem as gripped.I would have liked it if they had visited a few more games.I would recommend this, especially if you like computer games and want something you can enjoy as well as the kids.
__label__8 I am a huge Disney fan/video game fan so when Disney created a film based on the arcade I was excited about the film, and after watching it the hype did not disappoint.The film, based on the life of a villain wanting to be a hero involves many characters recognisable to the gaming world as these tie in well with the story, along with many backgrounds to games such as the iconic Pacman platform. Within the candy world, the use of 'Nesquik Sand' and 'Diet Coke Springs' add that extra element of fun for the family.The movie also includes a range of music that is suitable for the each member of the family in order to enjoy the film. Artists such as Rihanna, Owl City and even Skrillex have been carefully chosen to represent a specific part of the film and the songs used help to represent a certain game shown in the film.The use of the graphical element and references to the advancement in gaming technology also give a pretty cool background to the film. The use of how old games connect and interact with the newer games show how the graphics have developed over time and all this makes the film great for all Disney and gaming lovers.
__label__8 So it was with much trepidation and even utter fear in my heart that I went to see this movie. After all, the last time I went to see a full-length adaptation of a favorite Christmas story, what I got was Ron Howard's absolutely God-awful "The Grinch". Having grown up with the book "The Polar Express" (according to my mom, I cited it as my favorite Christmas present when I was seven), I did not want to see this story bastardized in any way. Honestly, I was prepared for "Polar Express" to be a complete wreck. But instead It soared. Completely. What makes the film such a success is not so much even the story itself, but an execution which somehow manages to inject every frame of the film with a feeling of childlike wonder and exuberance. In addition, there are so many clever touches and details added throughout that a feeling of mystery and excitement just fills the viewer. Among these are the waiters dancing and singing while serving hot chocolate to the kids on the train (a very funny scene, as well), the factory where the presents are prepared, and a ghost-like hobo who is never really explained, but is incredibly crucial to the feel of the film. At one point, three of the children wander lost through the empty streets of Santa's North Pole town. As they wander, various old Christmas recordings are heard playing on phonographs throughout the town. The music provides a pleasant and nostalgic ambiance to the scene. It's touches like this that absolutely make the film.I'll never understand why films seem to be required to be at least 90 minutes long. I would pay money to see a 40-minute film, as long as it were good. And even if it sucked, I would have at least wasted less time. What I'm getting at is I have no idea why a 32-page picture book needed to be a 99-minute movie. What this means is that the original story is VASTLY expanded upon. However, what is added in actually fits quite well with the essence and spirit of the book. Some of it is just sheer entertainment; the train track is like a roller coaster, characters ski on top of the cars, danger lurks around every step of the journey to the North Pole (but admittedly fun danger). Other aspects further illuminate and expand upon the book's basic theme of the virtue of belief in the implausible. So I have no idea why this was made into a full-length, but in the end, I'm glad it was. It didn't even feel too long (and I think everything is too long).Much criticism has fallen on the look of the characters in the movie. I can agree to a point. While there is incredible visual detail in the faces, they usually seem void of expression. In general, a lot of the motion seems rather wooden, as well. The scenery, on the other hand, is gorgeous. Overall, the minor problems in animation (which really boil down to a matter of taste anyway) are certainly not enough to diminish what is an overwhelmingly successful movie. Score: 8/10
__label__8 A simple story . . . beautifully told . . . magnificently visualized.The IMAX experience was stunning.I did not expect to enjoy the story as much as I did. Simple but quite heartwarming.Although it started a bit slow, it continued to gain momentum (no train analogy intended) through its conclusion. I was not a great lover of the animation of the human characters, but the other animation, whether it be the train, the scenery, the reindeer, or the elves (are elves human?) was quite well done. Perhaps the best review I can provide is that after I watched the Polar Express, I just felt happier.
__label__8 I am not at all interested in dragons and all such fantasy creatures. I don't like children movies with all their stupid messages. I saw this movie rather just to pass the time than to watch it for its sake. And Whoa! I was drawn in this river in first 5 minutes. And what a experience it has been! Right from the start as the narrator describes his world, you are immediately there. You feel yourself in the characters place. The movie does that for you. This is very uncommon movie and it has set a milestone for 3D, not because of its technical aspects, but because of the Depth this movie has. This movie is as much for a 7 year old as it is for an old man who has seen a lot of life. This movie will entertain each viewer in his own way. This is a masterpiece! This movie isn't what it sounds on the surface. It has layers of meanings attached to it. Look at just the title: How to train your Dragon!. If you see it carefully you will notice that there is more to it than meets the eye. Watch the movie and you will know what i mean. This movie cleverly comments on Human Fear, War, Friendship, prejudices, courage, Love. ........................... Don't miss this movie or you will miss one of the few periods when you really LIVE. Note: Just remember to carry your heart with you when you see this movie. It will fill your heart with nothing but what should truly belong there. 10/10.
__label__8 An animated feast for the eyes is a brilliant description for this film. From the jaw-dropping visuals beautifully rendered in 3D, to the flawless animation of the characters and dragons, this was one film that didn't disappoint.Our protagonist is Hiccup, a boy viking who doesn't possess much in common with his dragon slaying dad. However, when he finds a new friend in Toothless, the most feared dragon of its species, he learns that dragons are not the fearful creatures he was brought up to believe.What I enjoyed the most was the relationship between Hiccup and Toothless the dragon. This was dealt with wonderfully and we see their relationship develop over a series of scenes which were done with great humour and action.The 3D holds its own in every sense, and I would go as far as saying that some scenes rival the groundbreaking Avatar. The scenes that especially stood out were the flying segments where the dragon soars over crystal clear sea's and jaw-dropping backdrops.Whilst this is a film that may seem as if it's solely directed at the younger generation, its stunning visuals and well-told story means that it will keep any adult satisfied.
__label__8 Here's an animated movie that has everything it should have, an inspired, but simple story without jokes intended for the adult parents who have to sit with their kids in the theater. In "How to train a dragon", it is the majestic artwork that keeps the viewer engaged, with a mix of funny, colored characters and a less heavy handed screenplay than those of pixar. In some ways that should detract from the movie, but somehow it all works into great fun that takes a grown man back to the fun of childhood.Simple, beautiful and a lot of fun.8/10
__label__8 I didn't go to see this movie with very high expectations, because it has gotten such varied and sometimes disparaging reviews this forum.  However, since I am an aspiring screenwriter and true cinema fan rather than simply a moviegoer, I decided to give this movie the benefit of the doubt.  At the very least, I could end up writing a scathing attack on it.Instead, I have found that I enjoyed the movie as I watched it, saw some flaws, but have discovered that the more I think about it, the more I want to give it a higher rating than I initially did (7).  The film's two major dramatic flaws, in my opinion, are: (1) An over-the-top chase scene that comes way too early in the script without sufficient build-up in suspense leading up to it; (2) A little too much campy humor recycled from the first two Terminator movies.The good outweighs the bad by a large margin. (1) The screenplay has some intriguing plot subtleties that grow on me after awhile, the most notable of which is the actual nature of the safe place.  It could be the way it is for several possible reasons, some strategically favoring SkyNet, some the humans.  Any of them could be spun into a major plot element for a sequel. The rest you'll just have to find yourself. (2) The character development of both John Connor and Kate Brewster is elegant, believable and moving, and also opens possibilities for future character development. (3) The plot is an interesting variation of the "Reluctant Hero" theme, which is a classic in literature and drama and always will be.  John Connor is a hero who is almost an anti-hero.  True, they could have sharpened his ambivalence a little (sacrificing some chase footage for it would have been an excellent trade, in my opinion). (4) The Terminatrix is a very good villain: She's young, she's sexy, and she's chillingly soulless.  She is actually too smoothly sexy and physically perfect, but that makes sense when you consider that she has been created and programmed by other machines who, lacking the real-world experience of humans, can only base her appearance and humanoid behavior on their knowledge of human stereotypes.That last leads me to some thoughts about Arnie's character.  He is clearly getting a little too old for a reprise of his customary youthful, physically perfect role in any sequel.  If he is brought back in a sequel - and I hope he is - a good, imaginative screenwriter could really work with his advancing age and loss of physical perfection.  Since he is programmed by humans with real human experience, he could be brought back as a deceptively older and less physically powerful character, but more psychologically sophisticated (more like a true human with a soul), and his deceptive physical appearance combined with his greater psychological sophistication could be his aces in the hole when his strength and nonhuman cyborg qualities are insufficient.  In other words, he could be shaped into an amazing supporting hero in any sequel. Maybe I could write his role!
__label__8 I feel this movie gets a lot more hate than it deserves. Sure it may not be as good as the second one, and let's face it it's hard to top T2. But that doesn't make this a bad film. I actually like how John Connor is portrayed in this. Sure he's a bit whiny and a bit of a coward, but that's because he has not grown yet into the person he will be. He's unsure, and full of doubt. He has to grow.And this movie has one of the best movie trailers I've ever seen!
__label__8 I truly don't get the hate for this movie, unless you're one of those types that goes to comicon and asks questions about insanely obscure trivia to flaunt your vast knowledge of the T universe or writes erotic terminator fan-fiction from your mom's basement. It's the least of the three terminators, yes. But the least in a series of such high quality and entertainment value that to suggest this is one of the worst sequels ever is just plain hyperbolic stupidity. One of the things I keep seeing mentioned is the less serious parts. What is wrong with some humor? It was hardly even close to enough to call it a comedy and none of it was bad enough to induce groans. T2, and even T1, had humorous bits but I don't hear complaints about them. I don't know what people were expecting. They act like this is the Phantom Menace of the Terminator franchise. Please. It's got solid action (including one of the best destructive car chase sequences ever imho), it's exciting, it's got decent acting and effects. Get over your butthurt fanboy gripes and just enjoy it.
__label__8 Liked it saw it a few times, It has it's bad parts but overall great action scenes and all around good movie.
__label__8 Say what you want about Terminator 3 Rise Of The Machines I still a strong film in the Terminator films yes I still will call the first two masterpieces and it should have not with just Terminator 2 but of course a series like the Terminator it is gonna be made into sequels. Also I'll take Terminator 3 over Terminator Salvation any day. Here's why. The plot in some ways feels like a "What if" Storyline as The Terminator (Arnold Schwarzenegger) is send back through time to protect John Connor (Nick Stahl) and Kate Brewster (Claire Danes) from T-X (Kristanna Loken).The film features some extreme action stunts that have you on the edge and it goes to show that the film did a lot to make it feel like Terminator and the fights were pretty intense for this one.The score in the film is pretty strong where the music helps the story of the film.There is a good bit of humor in this film but it don't take away from what the film from what it suppose to be. The special effects are pretty impressive with attention to make them look believable. Yes I know this movie gets a bad rap but if you're a fan of Terminator you should at least give it a shot and it is must better than Terminator SalvationI give Terminator 3: Rise Of The Machines an 8 out of 10
__label__8 T3 was actually very good. Put it this way, if we had never been treated to the classic and innovative T2, I believe a lot more people would have been in love with T3. T3 was looking at some serious obstacles: 1.) following up T2, a monster success 2.) an aging Arnold Schwarzenegger 3.) making a cohesive story that wouldn't contradict the former Terminators 4.) making a better terminator than the T-1000.As I said before, they followed up T2 respectably enough. There were good fight scenes with the T-800 and the T-X (I particularly like the fight in the bathroom), and there was an excellent car chase scene near the beginning. The action was good and plentiful, the effects were nice, and there was some good humor in the movie as well.Arnold was still in shape enough and made up enough to be believable. Of course he wore the leather jacket the entire movie. Not only that, he was an older Terminator model anyway, so any signs of stiffness or slow wittedness could easily be blamed on that.The story flowed well. John Connor (Nick Stahl) was again the focus except he is now a bit more subdued and scared. In his attempts to stay out of any electronic systems, he chooses a horrible life of joblessness, homelessness, and just plain bumming it. He was complimented by a much smarter, cleaner, and stronger partner, Kate Brewster (Claire Danes); she was tied into the story rather well. They stayed true to the Armageddon type story line and even had a bit of misdirection at the end to make the movie even more interesting.The T-X model terminator (Kristanna Loken) was nice. Sure, they chose a beautiful woman for the T-X, but she was not to be trifled with. The T-X had the same shape shifting abilities as her predecessor (the T-1000) but she also had abilities to control anything that had a CPU and she could form her hand into a variety of weapons. Similar to the T-1000 (Robert Patrick of T2), the T-X (Loken) took the T-800 (Schwarzenegger) to town, but she was a bit more dangerous even than the T-1000.T3 was a solid movie for a third installment. Usually by the third sequel you are begging Hollywood to stop, but I can't say that about this movie. This movie is good enough to watch more than once.
__label__8 Schwarzeneggar is back (he said he would be) as another T-1000 cyborg sent through time to protect the now grown up John Connor (Nick Stahl), and his future wife, Kate (Claire Danes), who are being stalked by the T-X (Kristanna Loken), the latest in murderous machines hellbent on destroying the human race.Rise Of The Machines might not be the (near) perfect juggernaut of an action sequel that was Cameron's Judgement Day, but as far as edge-of-the-seat, sci-fi fun goes, it's still bloody good! Director Jonathan Mostow certainly makes the most of his mega-budget, and delivers plenty of jaw-dropping mayhem along with loads of impressive special effects. And Schwarzenneggar does what he does best: blowing things up, shooting huge weapons, and delivering cheesy one-liners.The (mostly) smart script follows on nicely from The Terminator and T2, further developing the character of John Connor, neatly explaining away the absence of Linda Hamilton in a not-too-disappointing way, and brilliantly bringing the whole affair to a satisfying, and not altogether happy, conclusion. There is blistering action (a set piece involving a massive crane causing untold damage to umpteen cars and buildings is absolutely incredible), some nice touches of humour, and a bit of quite gruesome violence (for a DVD that is rated 12!).Sure, T3 isn't quite as good as its predecessors, but how many films are? Both the original The Terminator and T2 are extremely tough acts to follow. I think Rise Of The Machines does a pretty good job and deserves a lot more praise than it gets.
__label__8 This movie doesn't deserve the hate it's getting. Now obviously it isn't as good as the first two Terminator movies. But this is also what's "wrong" with it. It's a great movie, but if you compare it to 1 and 2 then of course it won't be great, simply because the two first just are that great and legendary movies.
But - as I wrote - it certainly doesn't deserve the hate.
80% - 8/10
__label__8 Terminator 3 was nothing short of a thrill-ride of explosions, over-the-top action and fun - although after three movies I am finding the Terminator series getting very repetitive. Is it just me, or does it seem like a member of the resistance comes back to protect John Connor/Sarah Connor, the machines send back a Terminator to take them out - we see some fights and bingo-bango, a couple hours later it is all resolved?I felt Terminator 3 lacked the look and feel of the classic Terminator 2, and often bordered on unintentionally comical scenes. I had to laugh at some of the fight scenes between The Terminator and the T-X, which seemed like some sort of CGI bad dream. On the opposite side of the coin, the scenes throughout the movie which were supposed to be comical, felt very cheesy and tacked-on, i.e. the Elton John glasses.That aside, Terminator 3 was packed full of what Arnie movies do best - fights, chases and s*** getting blown up. The car chase scene involving the crane was great, and as far as I am concerned was better than The Matrix Reloaded's attempt at a car chase any day. The T-X, played by very cute Kristanna Loken, brought a freshness to her role as the 'Anti-Terminator' Terminator. The T-X seems to take the best of the Terminator and the T-1000, and chucks in some extra firepower for added effectiveness.Terminator 3 might not add as much to the overall story as possibly Terminator 2, but it will fill a lot of holes, expand on some of the concepts hinted at in previous movies and tie up some loose ends in the series. You will learn more about John Connor's future, Skynet, Judgement Day, and the future of mankind's battle against the machines.As for the ending? Well I thought it was a very interesting and thought-provoking way to end the movie, and possibly the series. Although given Hollywood, I would imagine there will probably be at least one or two more movies. With or without Arnold, the series surely must move away from the "send back a Terminator to kill John, and they send one to protect him" style, and take us to the future where John Connor takes control of the resistance.I give T3 an 8/10.
__label__8 It is ten years since the events of Terminator 2; Judgement Day did not take place and John Connor is a drifter rather than the saviour of humanity. At least that is what he thinks; as a virus plagues the internet the military plans to use Skynet to fight it soon two terminators will show up. The first is a new T-X model, this looks like a woman and is programmed to kill those destined to be John's lieutenants. The second is a T-850, the familiar model payed by Arnold Schwarzenegger, which has been programmed to ensure John survives Judgement Day. By coincidence John meets up with Kate Brewster, a girl he last saw the day before the events of the last film and destined to be an important part of his future, just as the T-X comes to kill her and the T-850 arrives to save him. They manage to escape but the T-X is never far behind and Kate takes some persuading to accept what is going on. Kate's father is the Air force officer who will release Skynet; John believes that they can get to him and stop Judgement Day again; the T-800 states that Judgement Day is inevitable.After a great original film and an impressive sequel this film has a lot to live up to so I can understand why plenty of Terminator fans aren't keen on this instalment. It isn't as good as the previous films but I still really enjoyed it. John Connor is no longer a smart Alec teen and his mother Sarah has died; the first detail is good news but the second is a pity as Sarah Connor was such a great character. Arnie's T-850 is much the same as he was in T2; which is good and I really liked the new T-X model terminator even if it seemed to break some of the rules established in previous films with her built in weapons. The action is almost non-stop with plenty of really impressive set pieces; most notably when the T-X chases her targets in a massive crane wreaking havoc along the way. Nick Stahl did a fine job as the slightly jaded Connor and Claire Danes impressed as Kate; I also liked Kristanna Loken's portrayal of T-X and as for Arnie well he is The Terminator so no complaints there. Overall an enjoyable addition to the franchise.
__label__8 It's no surprise that when Marvel's latest movie was released many, many people (the non comics reading kind, mainly) said "Who?" The comic itself has never been what you call top tier, with various incarnations having been around for decades, although the film is based on the team created by Dan Abnett and Andy Lanning in 2008, now being serviced by top writer Brian Bendis.Marvel certainly have made sure the Guardians have plenty of publicity, turning a bunch of also rans into a must see event and even having the confidence to proclaim "The Guardians Of The Galaxy Will Return" at the end of the movie. This is a company with the utmost confidence in their product, and after seeing it it's very easy to understand why.First and foremost, Guardians... is fun. After a truly heartbreaking beginning everything goes a bit daft, mixing swashbuckling sci fi action with larger than life characters, and whilst at first you may be a little puzzled, it all streamlines into a simple plot soon enough. Basically, Guardians leader Peter Quill (known mainly to only himself as Star Lord) has a plot device, and other people also want the plot device. He forms an alliance with a very disparate bunch of people who each have their own reason for helping him. To go into more detail really isn't that necessary, as all it will involve is laying out a roster of names and personal grievances, and you'll get all that when you watch the film, because if you're reading this review I will lay odds you're going to see it.The movie looks beautiful throughout, probably thanks to the thousand or so "Digital Artists" who take up a large part of the end credits. Ship design is fantastic, with many looking like they were pulled direct from a Chris Foss art book, and if you know Foss you'll know this is a high compliment. Yeah, the bad guys have dull, dark vessels with inadequate lighting (surely evil needs to see as well?) but the good guys have some sexy vessels indeed. Sound wise, it may seem odd that a 2014 state of the art sci fi movie will have a 1970's chart soundtrack, but the inclusion of The Runaways, Rupert Holmes and, of course, Blue Swede's "Hooked On A Feeling" is completely explained and rather poignant. It would be nice, too, if kids start downloading some of this awesome old stuff and finally start listening to real music (so speaks an old fart).So in a nutshell this is a very good movie. It's packed with fun and enjoyable characters, but also has it's fair share of down beats and dead beats. Top honours are fought out for between Chris Pratt, excellent and ridiculously likable as Peter Quill, and the brilliant Rocket Raccoon, a purely CGI character stuffed with attitude and some great one liners. The other main characters all do well, however, with even big bag Ronan (no, not the Boyzone one, mores the pity) being well served and very well played with menace aforethought by Lee Pace.One thing people want to know about Marvel films is what's the after credits scene like? Well, without being spoilery, I'll say two things: one, it's NOT a big reveal or anything like that, but two, it's really funny if you have a knowledge of a certain old Marvel character. Oh yeah, and you get to play everyone's favourite game in the movie - 'Spot Stan Lee'. It just wouldn't be the same without him mugging it up somewhere.In closing, "Guardians Of The Galaxy" is right up there with the rest of Marvel's cinematic output, making a clear mark by being totally different to anything else we've so far seen. It's Fun with a capital 'F', and engaging throughout. Some of the violence may be a bit much for smaller kids, and there's a bit of moderately fruity language (is 'dick' fruity still? I fall behind sometimes). That said, kids who don't mind a walking tree impaling people or a raccoon murderising people with a kick ass gun will have a blast. Big, beautiful and bad ass, "Guardians Of The Galaxy" is definitely the feel good fantasy of 2014, as evidenced by the grin still stuck to my face. All together now... "I'm hooked on a feeling..."
__label__8 So Guardians of the Galaxy is finally out and how is it?....it matches every expectation you had about it. Essentially, it is an absurdly fun, cheesy, old-fashioned space adventure with a superhero edge. For those of you who didn't know, the Guardians are pretty much the polar opposite of the Avengers - they're loud, brash, free-spirited, and most of all.....human....or as human as you can be being 4 aliens and 1 human. Unlike the Avengers, they don't play nice when it comes to saving the galaxy.This movie has so much going for it that you can't really explain it in one paragraph but all you need to know is that the humour is great, the action is non-stop, the drama is riveting and genuinely heartwarming, the soundtrack rocks and unlike most superhero teams - everyone of the guardians are 100% awesome in their own way.I won't spoil the plot for you but i will say that what makes Guardians work so well is that it has a genuinely good-natured, back to basics, rock n' roll approach that has swagger and style aplenty. Despite their late entry into the Marvel franchise, rest assured that the guardians are here stay and will be defending a galaxy near you soon.
__label__8 Like a lot of other people, I wasn't sure what to expect from this movie. To say it exceeded my expectations would be an understatement. It's a clever and fresh gem in the stable of Marvel films. One of the best they've put out so far. The script is full of funny lines but it's also got lots of good character stuff with earned emotional moments. The action and effects are nice. The cast is great, including those just doing voices. Chris Pratt does a wonderful job blending the comic relief with the superhero. The soundtrack of old pop songs is terrific and integrated into the plot perfectly. The homages to Star Wars, Indiana Jones, and more are fun. Which is the simplest and best word to describe this movie: fun. You'll have a blast watching it.
__label__8 I'm nearly at a loss for words. Just when you thought Christopher Nolan couldn't follow up to "The Dark Knight", he does it again, delivering another masterpiece, one with so much power and rich themes that has been lost from the box office for several years. Questioning illusions vs reality usually makes the film weird, but Nolan grips your attention like an iron claw that you just can't help watching and wondering what will happen next. That is a real powerful skill a director has. No wonder Warner Bros. put their trust in him, he is THAT good of a director, and over-hyping a Christopher Nolan film, no matter what the film is about, is always an understatement instead of an overestimate like MANY films before.Not since the eras of Stanley Kubrick, Andrei Tarkovsky and Alfred Hitchcock has there been a more brilliant director than Christopher Nolan. He is, undoubtedly, one of THE most brilliant and gifted Hollywood filmmakers in history. Filmmakers like him come but just once in a lifetime. He has the ability to seduce our eyes, ears and most importantly, mind, and then delivers what he intends to deliver in full blast. Rarely have blockbusters have the gall to deliver such amounts imagination and intelligence at the same time. And yes, it is similar to the excellent anime film "Paprika" in the whole "invading dreams" plot, but the similarities end there as Nolan brings the film to a whole different level.Visuals and intelligence rarely come together in movies at the same time, it's either all-visuals-no-smarts ("G.I. Joe", "Transformers") or the exact opposite ("Doubt", "Invictus"). In this film the excellently directed action sequences combined with immensely groundbreaking and jaw-dropping visual effects are combined smoothly with a heavy dose of intelligence and believability.Although having an ensemble cast and financed by a Hollywood giant studio (Warner Bros), this film is a very personal film for Nolan, he wrote the film as well as directing it, and as you watch the film you get many glimpses of Nolan's perplexing, increasingly imaginative thoughts and dreams in the dialog that he writes and the plot that he sets up. Ideas have never felt more interesting and put to good use than in this film. This film is NOT for the popcorn muncher, rather it is a film for thinkers. Honestly I can't explain the plot for fear of spoiling the movie for you readers. Even the slightest hint will ruin the experience. The viewer will walk out of the cinema feeling dazed, confused and ultimately breathless. It's like a puzzle, both physically and mentally, and you have to pay attention throughout the film for the clues. However Nolan controls the spectacle of the film and is careful not to let it overwhelm the film's humanity, and this is where "Inception" shines. It is a very deep film that will have one thinking and asking questions for years to come. That's right, years.Once the film ends, you'll want to watch it again, for there's something new every time. This is a film that requires multiple viewing for someone to truly comprehend the film's ambiguous themes, and will be discussed by many in the future. This is an original film, no adaptation, no sequel/prequel, no remake/reboot, which is extremely refreshing having gone nearly three years of mostly unremarkable visual effects roadshows ("Avatar" be damned).Of course, a film is not complete without the actors. Leo DiCaprio delivers an Oscar worthy performance, similar but better than his previous effort "Shutter Island". He shows glimpses of a flawed, grim, fragile man, who has knowledge about everything else but yet can't seem to come in grips with himself and his demons. Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Ellen Page, Tom Hardy, Ken Watanabe, Dileep Rao, Cillian Murphy, Tom Berenger, Michael Caine, Marion Cottilard, Pete Postlethwaite, Lukas Haas... Nolan really brings out the best in this unusual yet extremely talented group of supporting actors who make their roles their own.Nolan is of course, a master behind the camera, a real virtuoso when it comes to film. His direction is taut, focused, gripping, and extraordinarily fascinating. The detailed and complex original script is no surprise from Nolan, considering the fact that he turned Batman the superhero into pop-culture art two years ago ("The Dark Knight"). The action sequences are unique, exciting and fresh, something absent from the cinema which has since been interested at things popping towards the screen and stuff blowing up every two milliseconds. The visual effects are awesome and imaginative, and best of all they do not bring down the movie's quality one bit, rather it makes the movie more fascinating to watch. The cinematography is absolutely, beautifully shot, so we can see the action and emotion in all their glory. Production design is top notch, with terrific design of sets and locations. Hans Zimmer's complementing music score is simply outstanding, and knowing the man, that's really all I have to say. Together all of these elements combine to deliver a mesmerizing movie experience like no other this year.Christopher Nolan has once again outdone himself. He truly is a gifted filmmaker, arguably the most imaginative in Hollywood today. And "Inception" can proudly stand alongside "Blade Runner" and "2001: A Space Odyssey" as science-fiction masterpieces that push the boundaries for movie making and become a different experience altogether.There are two types of films: the crowd-pleasing blockbuster and the intelligent indie/art film. Nolan has combined two of these tropes together into one exceptionally brilliant package, pulling off that rare, now nearly-extinct Movie Magic that has since been wiped off the planet by sequelitis and reboots. Movie of Summer 2010? Movie of 2010? Heck this is possibly the first masterpiece of the decade! Nolan is a genius and I applaud him for treating his audiences as intelligent people.Missing this film and not getting the film's point is a crime.Overall value: 9/10 (Excellent)
__label__8 'Shin Godzilla' isn't Toho's vainglorious attempt at re-capturing the success of recent Hollywood adaptations of its iconic Japanese monster. Quite the contrary, co-directors Hideaki Anno and Shinji Higuchi know better than try to outdo their Western counterparts in terms of spectacle, and instead have made the astute decision to make a distinctly Japanese 'Godzilla' that will most certainly resonate with their home audience, even at the expense of alienating some non-Japanese viewers without the same cultural or historical context. In fact, we dare say that their film has the unique distinction of being both political allegory as well as real-world horror, and is surprisingly effective on either count.No other recent event has been so seared in the Japanese consciousness as that of the 2011 Tohoko earthquake and tsunami as well as the consequent Fukushima nuclear disaster, not just because of the hundreds of thousands of people affected but also because it exposed how terribly unprepared the Japanese government was with handling a crisis of such proportions. The parallels here are unmistakable – from an indecisive Prime Minister (Ren Ôsugi) to the frustratingly bureaucratic attitude of his Cabinet ministers to the embarrassing revelation of his poor judgment (such as during a live press conference where Godzilla makes landfall right after he specifically tells the people that the creature will not) – and indeed meant no less than a searing indictment of just how inept the Naoto Kan's administration was during 3/11.Yet it isn't hard to imagine how a movie based solely on such criticism would quickly turn monotonous, not least because the lead characters here are all political/ Government figures – among them, Hiroki Hasegawa's outspoken and gutsy Deputy Chief of Cabinet Secretary Rando Yaguchi, Yutaka Takenouchi's opportunistic Aide to the Prime Minister Hideki Akasaka, and Satomi Ishihara's Special Envoy for the United States Kayoko Ann Patterson – and each is defined only in terms of his or her role and ambition in relation to the ongoing calamity. None too subtle is the point, emphatically and unequivocally made, that while politicians wield the ingenuity and authority it takes to manage an unprecedented catastrophe, each is also simultaneously weighting the cost or opportunity of every decision or maneuver to his or her political futures. Just as illuminating, especially to the Japanese, is the strengths or limits of its military might post-WWII, seeing as how it has never yet seen the need to invoke the use of its Self-Defense Forces (SDF) or call in the help of the US military under the US-Japan Security Treaty. Under the pretense of exterminating Godzilla, Anno's screenplay imagines what it would take not just for the SDF to be activated but also how US intervention would likely come with some strings attached. How and if at all it is meant to play into the current Shinzo Abe's push for an expansion of the SDF role is quite perceptively left up to the audience's interpretation, but there is no doubting that the introduction of the United Nations late into the film is meant to demonstrate how powerless nations not on its Security Council may be to resolutions passed by its five members on non-member countries.Yes, if it isn't yet clear, there is no intent here to highlight the human dimension of such an event; rather, it is domestic politics as well as the global world order that forms the basis of this re- incarnation of Godzilla. As a reboot, 'Shin Godzilla' starts on a clean slate, beginning with an underwater disturbance that briefly makes its way onto shore before going back out to sea, then returning as a much more highly evolved organism that grows and grows ever more fearsome. Fans though will not be disappointed – as with past iterations of Godzilla, this latest version not only has the ability to radiate highly destructive atomic rays from its dorsal fins, it also can set streets of buildings ablaze by spewing fire out of its mouth. It does take time to get used to the new 'ShinGoji' design, but rest assured that this beast is every bit as terrifying as it should be.In fact, that palpable sense of fear is twofold – first, in tying the origins of Godzilla to Japan's ignominious nuclear history; and second, in showing with utmost realism the wanton destruction of notable landmarks in Tokyo by the monster. The former has to do as much with the United States' alleged dumping of radioactive waste in Tokyo Bay in the 1950s and 1960s as accusations of Japan's own disposal of toxic ash from the burning of Fukushima's nuclear waste into the same waters. The latter, on the other hand, sees entire districts in Tokyo ripped or flattened by Godzilla's rampage, impressively staged by co-director cum VFX supervisor Anno (also known for last summer's 'Attack of Titan') using a mix of old- fashioned puppetry and modern CGI. In particular, the combined US- Japan military assault on Godzilla along the banks of the Kano River and the finale in downtown Shinjuku is stunning, especially in imagining the magnitude of destruction that Godzilla could inflict on modern-day Japan.Yet if the promotional materials have given the impression that 'Shin Godzilla' is an action-packed blockbuster like its most recent Hollywood predecessors, you'll do best to temper those expectations. Sure, there are beautiful sequences of Godzilla wreaking havoc, but because the focus is on displaying different types of political personalities and their responses towards such a crisis of proportions, there is a lot of talking (as well as 'talking heads') throughout the film and especially in the beginning. By tapping into the paranoia, fear and frustration of their fellow Japanese following their own recent real-life crises, Anno and Higuchi have made a contemporary 'Godzilla' that is sure to roar loud with their home crowd – and by that count, this is as its Japanese title suggests, a new and true incarnation as relevant as it is frightening.
__label__8 ** Review based on original Japanese versionWhoever is judging the Japanese original film as a non-Japanese native speaker, chill and think twice before telling others. You didn't understand most of what went into the scenes. The plot mostly revolves around what happens in the meetings. Trying to judge this movie without understanding the conversation is like judging Woody Allen movies without knowing English, New York and Jews, or Steven Chow's movies without tasting fish ball noodles in Wan Chai. The bureaucratic conversation that goes on these meetings are ironic, pathetic and hilarious. If you have ever worked with Japanese companies and got fed up with their slow decision making process, well there you go, now you know what's happening.Like most pointed out, this is not a typical Kaiju film. It depicts what really would happen if you throw in a monster in present-day Japan. How would politicians, bureaucrats, academics, military and other countries react, using real political systems and real technology available today? Of course being a sci-fi film, there were many fictions added too, but they stayed within the boundaries of this carefully set make-believe world.There is no hero in this film. There is no president flying his plane kamikaze-style into alien spacecraft. Reviewers complaining about the lack of character development are missing the whole point. There are 300 characters in this movie and they were meant to be close to anonymous. The audience can view from 10,000 feet and see how people collectively work together to fight against disaster. This how Japanese people function.The plot is designed to give catharsis to the Japanese people who directly or indirectly suffered from Tohoku Earthquake and Tsunami, and cheer them up. It did a pretty good job at it. It also reminds them that the fight is not over, and that they must continue their effort.The film includes references (homage) to past Kaiju movies and anime such as Evangelion and Patlabor. It will give you extra smiles and giggles if you are familiar with those work, but it doesn't mean you can't enjoy this film even if you don't know.To mention some downside, one turnoff was Satomi Ishihara, who was supposed to be acting an American, but wasn't trained enough to speak like one. She did a pretty good job at mocking short phrases, but long phrases were disastrous. Some say that it was a parody of questionable foreign characters in past Kaiju movies. I didn't need that, and it just pulled me back from the fantasy-reality to my own reality wondering about the miscast. I hope the international version gets dubbed by actress with decent American accent, and no humor in all the other high-speed conversation gets lost in translation.I am not an expert in assessing the CGI quality, but I found some scenes being substandard, where the creatures didn't quite blend into the background, or it had some clunky movement. Maybe it was an homage to old Kaiju movies as well. I would like to point out that there were other CGI scenes that were quite impressive though.All in all, it was a great Japanese film that comes out only once in few years.
__label__8 Japan is back in the game with their very own new Godzilla movie SHIN GOJIRA. Where Hollywood revived Godzilla as a tribute to his more heroic role in the late-showa era "versus" movies and the Heisei era, Toho Japan has gone back to the roots of the 1954 original Gojira and crafted a modern thriller about the horrors of mankind's misdeeds, the inaction of a government embroiled in bureaucracy and the impotence of a military in the face of this fiercer, meaner, force of nature Godzilla. .SHIN GODZILLA is likely the first Godzilla movie to focus squarely on the political scene within the government when a giant monster attacks. Past movies have always involved Scientists, soldiers, or civilians focusing on the chaos on the ground. This movies looks into the chaos at the top as we follow young civil servant Yaguchi, deputy chief cabinet secretary (the first in a long list of designations to come). A regular day in the government is interrupted by the collapse of the Tokyo bay aqua line tunnel and mysterious attacks off the coast of Japan. While the aged officials hold fruitless meeting after meeting in an obvious parody of real life bureaucratic process, Yaguchi theorists that the disasters are caused by a living creature. No sooner is his theory shot down than an enormous tail rises out of the water. As the government scrambles but always falling a step behind the escalating disaster, Yaguchi forms a task force of unorthodox civilian experts to figure out how to stop this creature. As the government's tried and tested efforts become increasingly futile, USA sends a special envoy Kayako Ann Patterson with the promise of military aid and insider knowledge to this mysterious creature dubbed "Godzilla". The creature is growing, mutating, and taking on increasingly dangerous characteristics. Yaguchi's team is forced to think outside the box for a new way to halt its rampage before the UN deploys nuclear weapons on Japanese soil.Contrary to the trailers, this is not the dark depressing disaster movie that was promised. Instead we are treated to one of the smartest and most biting social and political satires in modern cinema. Right in the crosshairs is the inefficient bureaucratic processes of the government and their obsession with trivial minutia which results in a complete mishandling of the crisis posed by the constantly evolving Godzilla. The satire comes in the fact that the film does not overly dramatize anything; what you see is as close to reality as one can get in an old fashion parliamentary government like Japan's. Each ministry out for itself, passing the buck wherever possible, defending only their own interests. Standard procedures take precedence over unconventional methods. Scenes of the prime minister making an announcement of Godzilla not being able to come ashore, intercut with the revelation that not only has the creature made landfall but has started trashing the town, hearkened back to the perceived mishandling of past real life disasters in Japan.Yet the message underlying this movie is not a strict criticism of the government but an affirming call to action aimed at a new generation of leaders to unite a nation. Where the traditional methods fail, innovation and initiative will be the true weapons of the future. Yaguchi and his team represent this perfectly; outcasts from their respective fields because of their unconventional ideas. Their tenacity in the face of hopeless defeat soon inspires fellow citizens from all walks of life, engineers, mechanics, construction workers and other blue collar roles typically overlooked by a status obsessed people, to come together and stand against a God incarnate.The titular monster is unlike any incarnation ever seen. It's keloid looking skin, seemingly torn in places, gives the impression of pure suffering. Yet his inhuman all staring eyes betray a being devoid of soul. It is as it was back in 1954; a soulless unstoppable force birthed from mankind's sins. The military is powerless, though not for a lack of trying. Where previous Godzilla movies have shown the military in a less than flattering light (cowardly, incompetent, or unable to hit such a massive creature), SHIN GODZILLA shows a military force truly giving their all, only hampered by slow indecision from the top.The special effects used to bring this colossus to life is arguably good. No where near Hollywood blockbusters but amazing once you consider the comparatively tiny budget Toho had to work with. The naturalistic direction an camera-work courtesy of Evangelion creator Hideki Anno and his crew give the movie an almost "documentary" type feel. It is devoid of filters, using very natural looking lighting wherever possible, which enhances the realism of the events taking place. Though the cuts can be a bit distracting at times, alternating between rapid fire jump cuts to scenes that look as if Anno left his camera running and forgot about it. Equally distracting is some of CGI compositing on Godzilla and some of his movements which end up more jerky than a puppet's. These are just minor faults though and only an issue to the more OCD of viewers. Perhaps the only thing it does lack is the element of human drama. It is unafraid to show the horrible consequences of a monster's rampage through a macro view of a country's key decision makers but in doing so it does not leave opportunity to get the audience invested in any particular character. More than just a monster movie, SHIN GODZILLA is a smart political thriller that satirizes an inflexible system. Those expecting a brainless action blockbuster will no doubt be disappointed. But as long as one is willing to turn in the brain and appreciate this movie for the deeper more complex themes it tries to tackle, you will find a refreshingly novel giant monster movie which the industry definitely needs.
__label__8 After waiting for a whole year, I finally got my hands on the award-winning Japanese film "Shin Godzilla", directed by Hideaki Anno (Evangelion) and Shinji Higuchi (live action Attack On Titan). With the praise this film got, did it live up to the hype for me? Yes and to an extent no.The film is a modern-day remake, showing how would the Japanese government (and to an extent other governments) react if Godzilla showed up for the first time today. This film is one of the more politically-charged entries in the franchise and is more of a thriller than a straight-up monster movie. There are lots of characters, a majority of which don't have much personality, but the main ones like protagonist Rando I found myself latching on to. Some the best scenes are when the characters stop acting like politicians and have casual and occasionally humorous dialogue. At least they took the whole situation very seriously with rarely an over-the-top moment much like the 2014 film, a breath of fresh air within the franchise. There's also this mystery element that plays a huge part in the story which I liked very much. Just as the 1954 film was a metaphor for Hiroshima and Nagasaki, this one reflects the Fukushima meltdown as well as the tsunami and earthquake Japan suffered a few years back (goes to show that Godzilla will always find a way to stay relevant).How does Big G himself hold up? Pretty good. His design is more-or-less an update of his original 1954 look, his skin looking like radiation scars. New to the series is that Godzilla EVOLVES throughout, starting out smaller and very odd-looking but growing larger, more powerful, and even smarter as the story progresses, making him unpredictable. I also enjoyed the exploration of his biology, that is how this creature could exist. My complaints fall under a few things, strictly on his main form: his arms are too small and he isn't very expressive, mostly just lumbering along in a straight line. When he does gets mad, however, that's when he really shines. The action scenes are entertaining enough and there's plenty of destruction featured with some surprising moments here and there. The special effects are largely CGI with elements of practical effects, both of which are good; Big G isn't a man in a suit this time (kinda disappointing) but rather motion capture, though there are a few well-done miniatures. Some sound effects are of the old era and the music is a mix of the original's by Akira Ifukube with some new ones by Shiro Sagisu, a lovely combo. There's even a track from Evangelion (Decisive Battle).My favorite scene: The first time Godzilla uses his atomic breath. Set at night with a mournful choir singing in the background (w/ English lyrics), the suspense that builds to the monster unleashing his power and rage upon the world was epic, chilling even, and has tremendous payoff. It's a truly apocalyptic image.There are a few issues to address. I admit the pacing isn't the best. The beginning particularly has some rapid editing and there are texts on the screen throughout (often naming a character and political position) that are quite distracting and take getting used to, though I suppose you're supposed to feel as rushed as these politicians. Also, there's a huge gap before the climax where there's no action going on that I honestly think the filmmakers should have cut down a little. I like the characters and what's happening to them, but I would have preferred for the film to cut to the chase a bit.Overall, this movie has its faults for sure, but I'm still glad I saw it. It was an interesting twist to my favorite fictional character. More films in both Japan and America are on the way and I can't wait. Long live the King of the Monsters!
__label__8 What the new Godzilla does right far outweighs its wrongs, although they can't be missed- -what's with those eyes? What's with her accent? What kind of tank alignment is that? The haters will have a field day picking the movie apart, but unlike the majority if not all of the other entries in the genre, the following tropes also have gone out the window: children, romantic relations, wives left waiting for the return of their brave husbands, victims holding personal grudges, exposition from long ignored all knowing specialists, a common enemy to side the audience with the titular creature--tiresome plot gimmicks, the total absence of which felt refreshingly good. The political subtext aside--which should mostly only interest people with political opinions on Japan, the plot follows a team of underdogs and outcasts led by a government cog in a race against literal bombs to find an effective way to neutralize a national threat. The camera-work and editing is fast-paced, and a multitude of characters play a role in handling the crisis. Crisis management movies based on real events usually try to hit emotional chords by emphasizing the above mentioned tropes to varying degrees of success, while overlooking the mundane aspect of processing such situations. Resurgence avidly instill a life into the mundane work of these everymen who happen to be the alternative to possible obliteration, human or otherwise. As can be seen from the range of its ratings, the movie is divisive. But whatever the conclusion, viewing it is worthwhile if only to track the influence it will hopefully have on the genre as well as Japanese cinema.
__label__8 Spoilers abound - proceed with care. Those of you who know a little about Godzilla know there are multiple "origin stories"...as well as numerous "deaths" in his history. This movie has both. I was lucky enough to be in Tokyo (thanks G-Tour!) for the opening of this new G-Film. It is different from most others in the non-series but very good, even in Japanese I could follow it. That said, Western viewers not really interested in the Godzilla story and/or with typically short attention spans will probably squirm a bit. The real "story" of the plot is a background of Japan's two recent disasters: monumental flooding and a nuclear plant disaster out of human control and still not completely contained. Into this plunges Shin Godzilla. Can the Japanese bureaucrats handle an other-worldly disaster? Will individual ambition and political climbing get in the way of fighting a giant monster who seems to be destructively evolving, sometimes in minutes? Are the meager resources of the Japanese self- defense forces sufficient against said monster? And can another solution entirely be found to the problem? Yeah,I know, it sounds like you might have to actually THINK here - no good for US audiences. But rest assured, the new Godzilla is a whole different thunderlizard with new capabilities previously unseen in the genre. I really liked it. I think a subtitled version could be relatively successful in the US, but I ain't betting on it. It is a good movie, though, and a meritorious addition to the Godzilla histories.
__label__8 "History shows again and again How nature points up the folly of men" -B.O.C.I have the suspicion people won't take too kindly to the new Godzilla "reboot" from the company that first brought this un-Godly creation to screen in 1954 (actually, that's not true, he's/it's *very* Godly, it's even in the name here which translated roughly to "God Godzilla") and, with two exceptions in 1998 and 2014 from Hollywood, have done so ever since. But it depends on what the expectations are; the sold-out audience I sat and watched Shin Godzilla with were likely people who had grown up with the big green menace - the "King of All Monsters" - or were coming to it for the first time, and want to see Godzilla rip up a city, blow some fire, and for military men and beleaguered officials trying to fight back. You do get that, but there's something else this time: bureaucracy. Lots of it. If Franz Kafka had arisen from a century-long slumber in the afterlife and came back to do a draft of a Toho Godzilla movie, it might look like this - the folly of people who have to go through the *process* of one stage of negotiation to another, how leadership works, how information and orders and things like paperwork and conference meetings with officials and ministers, this is what is at the core of this first Godzilla movie in 12 years. But that's part of the goof in its way: this is, at least at first, moving so fast that it may have the opposite effect for some watching, that there is so much information (and for American/English speaking audiences who don't know Japanese plenty of subtitles to read - gone are the days of actors in rubber suits or English-dubbed voiced) that it goes into overload. That's the point though, the inefficiency or, if not quite that, how long it takes to get some orders through: there's a moment where some copters can take some shots at Godzilla (albeit they don't know yet how impervious he/it is to the shots of human weapon-fire), and they don't get the order because of two lowly humans running on the ground near Zilla's feet. There is so much densely packed information and characters talking - and, believe me, practically every character gets a title card above their heads introducing them, whether they have many lines or just one - that it does get to be too much, when it veers on turning into a Christopher Nolan movie as far as characters not stopping in many scenes to let moments breathe or for visuals to do more of the telling, and the satire of institutions gets stifled.Luckily that's not throughout the whole run-time, and one of the strengths of this Godzilla movie, which is not a guilty pleasure like the 60's/70's movies but not deathly serious/dull like the Edwards movie, is that when the creature comes up the pacing is just right. There may not seem to be a lot of Godzilla in this, but I think between his three appearances, with the first where he looks like a lump of weird red/blood-gilled WTF, like he's a Godzilla knock-off puppet that's been deflated almost like a fake-out, and then when he comes into his own in the mid-section as the BIG monster, they make it pay off well. And to contrast this I got into the performances from the key players, which are Yaguchi, the low-level official who gets a lot of responsibility to figure out an alternate path to defeat Godzilla before it reawakens (this after destroying most of Tokyo with a massive fire attack), and Kayoko Ann Paterson which, as the name suggests, is an American-Japanese character and the actress carries a great deal of screen presence for her scenes (and even some good conflict for her character in the third act). There is some messages to take in about how this new Godzilla figures into the modern world, just as Gojira in 1954 fit that post-WW2 world (again, this is now a Godzilla movie where none existed before, this doesn't stop Toho and director Hideaki Anno from using all the superlative music cues from the original series), so here the theme connects back to the 2011 earthquake and nuclear reactor disaster that happened in Tokyo. Without saying too much the third act brings it back around to how the reactor issues were solved in real life, and though by this point the satire is flattened out by the drama and sincerity of the story (and the tension of will-they-won't-they in a beat-the-clock scenario), I liked how sincere the movie was and how it contrasted with the stuffy bureaucratic-technocratic-ness of the first two acts. Good ideas will always rule the day whether it's people defeating a Tokyo-stompin' beast, or those making it into a movie featuring motion capture CGI (very impressive at that), and some solid filmmaking.It's far from perfect or anything even classic, and I'm sure if I'd seen more Godzilla movies - I'm not a newcomer but I can't tell you all the details of what Ghiddora or Megalon or those guys do - I could place it firmer in the cannon. I can simply say that this is a really enjoyable monster movie and a clever if occasionally too "talky" and cumbersome movie. Again, talky itself isn't a bad thing when it's interesting, and here the talk is mostly fine. 7.5/10
__label__8 No wait, that's not true. Actually this is as political as it gets. I mean you get served a movie from the perspective of what it does to national security and to Politicians and diplomatic stances. Even Americans get involved (a little bit, though they seem to be fluent in Japanese too) in this to an extent.The movie has all the mayhem you'd expect it to have. But try to remember this is meant to be a sort of Origin story from a different perspective. So let's get physical ... I mean political. Although As you can imagine there is all sorts of mayhem. And while there is CGI it still has the nostalgia to it. Also relationships may not be front and center, but you still get the nature of what people are about. So while not perfect in any sense (that goes for Godzilla/Gojira too, especially at the start), this feels like in the same vain and spirit as the ones made many decades ago ...
__label__8 Firstly, I have to make a statement- the LOTR movies, for me, have set an impossibly high bar both in this universe and within the movie world as a whole. Their cinematic beauty and value cannot be denied.The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey, however, is an entirely different movie. Sure, it's set in the world of Middle Earth, but that's really about all it holds in common with the aforementioned trilogy, alongside a few familiar faces. Many members of the audience I was in complained that the movie took a long time to get going, but it actually was paced rather well, with a suitably sized introduction with Ian Holm and Elijah Wood making way for the current storyline. The first thing you notice as a viewer is that this movie is notably funnier. Whilst the LOTR trilogy had it's lighter moments, The Hobbit revels in the lighter side of life, with lots of genuinely hilarious moments interspersing themselves with scenes of real peril.The visually stunning moments are still there, and whilst I saw this movie in 2D, some moments would have been absolutely perfect in 3D. At first, it's a little difficult to get into, especially when the light-hearted opening with the countless visiting dwarfs gets underway. However, if you can remind yourself as a viewer that The Hobbit was a book written for a much younger, impressionable audience, then you'll likely have a good time watching this. That said, it is far from childish, and although it is a lighter, more fun affair, there are still many parts within the story that an adult audience can relate to.Martin Freeman has been a firm favourite of mine since his humble beginnings on British terrestrial television, and seeing him here on the big screen is both a welcome and bizarre experience. That said, his demeanour and technique are perfect for the role of Bilbo Baggins, as he exudes the homely, simple manner of a Hobbit very effectively. Ian McKellen is perfect as everyone's favourite wizard, and Richard Armitage (another former British television star playing his trade to the silver screen)is a brilliant Thorin (son of Thrain!), mixing a toughened heart with a tortured soul. If anything, Thorin may turn out to be the true hero of the piece. The rest of the dwarfs are also brilliant, and many of them are the highlights of the movie.The special effects are once again spectacular, with the eye wateringly stunning rock giant battle a particularly memorable moment. The makeup effects are up to the job, too, and the attention to detail is ridiculous, right down to the individual scratches and weathered look of the weapons the characters wield. If you enjoyed the LOTR trilogy, then Peter Jackson will have you in awe again, although The Hobbit trilogy looks set to be a much more relaxed and 'fun' adventure. At the end of the day, the only complain to be made about the movie is that it simply isn't LOTR. Those movies set such a high level that even Peter Jackson himself can't seem to top them with this effort, but that's a minor complain for what is otherwise I very well made movie.Cinematic, adventurous, enjoyable and epic- The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey knows its audience and caters to them very well indeed.
__label__8 Every summer a film comes around that takes everyone by surprise.  Last year it was Scary Movie and I'm sure in 1977 it was a film like Star Wars and then in 1981 it was Raiders of the Lost Ark.  Now I am not saying that The Fast and the Furious is in the same class as Raiders and Star Wars, just that it surprised everyone on the same level.  F&F is short on plot and dialogue and even some of the acting is lame, but what it is oozes is testosterone.  It pumps your blood, increases your adrenaline and attacks you with fast cars, sexy women and that one invariable that I think it has going for it... Vin Diesel.  There is just something about the guy, something that you really can't put your finger on, but he just has it. Maybe it is charisma, maybe it is charm, maybe it is just that he resembles some of the action heroes from the 80's with his chiseled triceps and his slabs of pecs.  Maybe it is all those things and maybe it is none of those things, all I know is that F&F is exactly what I had hoped it would be and nothing more.  This is the summer movie that I have been waiting for.  It's not that the films that have been out so far aren't that great because some of them are, it's just that this is the one that epitomises what summer as a teen ager is all about.  It is no wonder that exit polls for this film were around 65-70% under the age of 21.  And maybe that is why I enjoyed it so much.  I am pushing 30 but isn't it cool to lose yourself in a film that reminds you what it was like to be in highschool.  And isn't it cool to watch street racers break 140 miles an hour wile they shoot NOS through their vehicles?  Well isn't it?F&F doesn't contain any machinations similar to a film like Mission Impossible and it doesn't dazzle us with special effects of impending doom like Armageddon did, but it takes us into a world where people live life "a quarter of a mile at a time."  Vin Diesel plays Dominic Toretto, a massive, bald mechanic that owns a garage but street races on the side to make some extra cash.  Paul Walker ( The Skulls, Varsity Blues) plays Brian Spindler.  He is a cop that has infiltrated the street gang to find out who is highjacking trucks and stealing all their merchandise.  There are about four rival street gangs in L.A. and one of them is pulling this off.  He has to figure out which one. Of course along the way he seduced by the life, but that is not what we really care about.  All we want to see is lots of racing, a few crashes, some fights and some sex.  F&F doesn't disappoint.  If what you have seen in the trailers of the film excites and entices you, then you know exactly what you're in for.  This is not going to win any Oscars for anything but what it will do is entertain you.  It will expedite you for 90 minutes into a world where Honda's are souped up to look like Dragons and junkyard scraps are rebuilt from scratch to be better than they were before, better, stronger and faster.  If this film appealed to you in the commercial, it will appeal to you on the screen.And of course there is Vin Diesel.  He first made a name for himself in Saving Private Ryan where he played Capparrzo.  Then he jumped onto the scene with his excellent and grandiose turn as Riddick in Pitch Black.  I think this is the film that got him noticed because no one had even heard of him before this.  Then he did Boiler Room and he showed a different side to him.  But F&F is all muscle and sheer bravado.  I think Vin is going to do great things in the years to come.  He is not a nobody anymore.  This film will take care of that.  And face it, isn't it cool to see the genesis of a new action hero?  8 out of 10-  The ultimate summer rush!
__label__8 Today I saw Tokyo drift and yesterday I saw 2 fast 2 furious for the fifth time, but I still find myself drawn toward the original. It stars Paul Walker as an undercover cop who infiltrates the street racing underworld of LA to catch a crook who has been hijacking millions of dollars worth of electronics from 18wheelers, causing the truckers to take matters into their own hands, ultimately ending in deaths and multitudes of money stolen. Now, you would think that because of the semi weak plot, this movie wouldn't be that good, however, the main storyline is just a small part of this movie, the other elements being action and some interesting relationships regarding vin diesels character. Diesel plays a street racing god, one of the best in the LA scene. Walkers character, Brians, way into the world is through Dominic Toretto (Diesel). Toretto has an air about him which draws other in, and Brian is no different. Throughout the movie, Brian is getting to know Dom, earning his trust, etc, but at the end of the movie, both Dom and Brian are forced to make a decision about each other... The whole relationship is interesting to watch. As for the action, there is plenty of it. Besides the many races, there is also some gunplay and some hand to hand fighting, and some interesting hijacking sequences.All in all the cars are hot, the girls are hotter, the cars are fast, the guns are loaded, and for the more serious, the relationship between Dom, Mia, Vince, Letty, and the others is amazing.If you haven't seen this movie, rent it tonight
__label__8 I've been watching the first five movies in the series recently. Must say, all of them are great movies if you're into cars and action. Really not that much to say, lots of action, lots of cars and really entertaining to watch. Actors are/were great, according to me Vin Diesel and Paul Walker are/were great actors. Too bad that Paul Walker is gone now, he was one of the best if not the best actor in the series according to me. Although all the actors were great but Paul was probably my absolute favorite. Very short review, I know, I can't find many bad things to criticize about this movie. Great actors, full of action and lots of awesome cars but not the greatest movie according to me, just a great movie that is entertaining to watch is all I can say really.
__label__8 I love ''The Fast and the Furious''. Many people are criticizing it in a bad way, saying that this movie have ruined the street car culture among other things.Well, I can't judge very much because I am not(yet) a car expert, but I can say that what this movie did was show to other people who never saw or heard anything like that, another reality that they are not used to see or hear. I became much more interesting in cars(specially tuning them) after watching ''The Fast and the Furious''and a whole new world have become a reality to me. Vin Diesel is awesome and hot (as usual)as the character Toretto,the respected leader of a famous street gang that is under suspicion of stealing expensive electronic equipments. The plot itself is not a profound or a big thing, but the cars and the races in this movie are really awesome!You gotta love or hate it! :)
__label__8 The first Fast and Furious movie I stumbled into by accident was Tokyo Drift and much to my surprise I loved it. So now because I have heard so much about how great the latest instalment was I have been going back and watching them all. The first film certainly has a strong appeal to it. Car movies are not necessarily my thing, I don't know a lick about cars except how to drive (and my wife would say even that is questionable.) Still the original film in this series also is one of the only ones I have seen outside of Tokyo Drift that is still truly about fast cars and racing. The series eventually evolves into more of a heist/criminal underworld sort of spin but this is truly about the cars. Right off the bat you're dropped into the action and there is some truly excellent action scenes. The characters are not brilliant but they are well defined and interesting despite being very predictable and stereotypical. One thing the Fast Furious series forces down your throats is the idea that this group is a "family" and will do anything for each other. They start this concept in this movie and then repeat it over and over and over again. A smarter series would let you feel that devotion and friendship with character development. But it is what it is, a simple action flick that entertains.This cast has made their bread and butter with this series. Vin Diesel is a star from this series and a few other roles but mostly this. He fits into it like a round peg into a round hole. He is a good anti-hero and his rough tough as nails charisma works in the movie. Paul Walker also made his name in this series. He is the yin to Diesel's yang. He is softer spoken, the red blooded all American type who is undercover within this gang and becomes one of the family. Walker is a little stiff in his performance and he certainly isn't flexing any major acting muscles but he is a necessity to the story and his chemistry with Diesel works very well. Jordana Brewster is Diesel's sister and Walker's love interest and she does decently. Her character gets very little development but she has a purpose and serves it well. Her chemistry with Walker is solid and their romance is definitely worthwhile. Michelle Rodriguez is Diesel's love interest and I think they actually have great chemistry, very hot on screen but she is very underused in this movie. I was surprised she got such a name from being in this because she is definitely a supporting character and way in the background most of the time. Rick Yune is decent but completely underused and under developed as the "villain" o sorts. He could have been much better but the character is too weak. Chad Linberg does a terrific job in a very small role and gives one of the stronger performances especially in a supporting role.The film relies entirely on its stunts, fast cars and action scenes. The cast and performances are adequate at best but thanks to a constant stream of adrenaline it ends up being very entertaining. Rob Cohen has a history as a director of relying on adrenaline to make his films. He might be one of the most shallow directors in the way that his movies have very, very little depth. These films, especially this one, is the definition of mindless entertainment. You have to turn off your brain and sit back and enjoy the spectacle. I'm not in any way saying there is anything wrong with that because I was thoroughly entertained. I don't quite understand the massive following this series has but this time I was pleased with the film so what can I say. Be ready to be entertained but not overly impressed. 8/10
__label__8 The Fast And The Furious is a great movie with a pretty good storyline and a cast that stay interested in their characters from start to finish,and some great car chasing scenes.This movie is the first Fast And Furious movie,and it is still going today,it is a very hit and miss film series,but the fifth is definitely the best one yet,and everyone has very high hopes for the sixth.Vin Diesel is the breakout character in this,he plays his character Dominic with great passion from start to finish,its hard to believe they did the second and third without him (with the exception of a brief appearance in Tokyo Drift).Fans of action movies and cars will get a great kick out of this movie.An undercover cop gets involved with a gang of street racers in LA in order to bust a hijacking ring,but he soon becomes close friends with the racers.
__label__8 This is the movie that created a brand new mega movie franchise. Generally when there's movie franchises they make movies in the form of trilogies. But later this year when Fast and the Furious 6 comes out it'll be the sixth movie in the series which shows the level of box office appeal the series has to be able to pump out an average of 1 movie every two years is quite impressive. The only other series doing that kind of productivity with different directors on basically a once every 2 year rate is the James Bond series.Vin Diesel who outside of his other series Riddick movies generally puts out mediocre to bad performances was basically made to play the role of Dominic Torretto. Same goes for Paul Walker, normally when I see he's going to be in a movie I don't bother watching it. But somehow when these 2 guys get together in a movie about driving fast cars with hot girls it turns into a guilty pleasure.
__label__8 THE best of TFATF movies. As all first-movie-in-a-franchise movies are.This one was the pure adrenaline rush that is Rob Cohen, the director. The first movie of Rob's that I saw was xXx and that was amazing! I loved that movie. Of course I mostly love all brainless high octane action flicks.But, there is something else about this film that makes me love it beyond my own comprehension. Maybe it's the heart and the whole leave-no-man-behind theme that rocks around throughout this film, especially in the last half-hour.Most people only don't like this movie because of it's absence of a plot. I agree. There isn't much of a plot here, and if there was, it's all over the place.But who needs a plot in a movie that is meant to be just a movie to hold your attention. And that's exactly what it does! 8 out of 10.
__label__8 If you like cars - this movie is for you. Sure, the cars in this movie are not what an ordinary European lad would regard as decent, some of the parts are quite alluring (T66 with NOS you know... ;-)) but among the car bodies there are some that look way too stereotype (Honda Civics...?).The story is entertaining, though rarely sophisticated. This, I guess, is the reason for why someone reader of IMDb commented that in this movie Vin's talent was wasted. I consent to this to quite some degree and really suggest to those of you, who haven't already familiarized themselves with the work of this convincing actor to do so as soon as there is a chance to.
__label__8 I found this to be an interesting film; certainly not boring as I had heard from a few people who saw it in the theater. To me, it was simply good storytelling.Yes, it's slow, especially by today's movie standards, but it's certainly a unique story and it's nicely filmed, acted and directed. Story-wise, it's one of those films I understand if people love it or hate it. I'm somewhat in the middle and leaning toward the positive.For a movie that runs for over 2 hours and 40 minutes and is not some suspense or action film, it has to be pretty good to hold one's interest. I can only speak for myself; it held my interest for 95 percent of it.I think the first two-thirds of the movie is the best. Brad Pitt as "Benjamin Button" is pretty fascinating, as is the story of him growing up from a wrinkled, old man-baby to a mid-40s guy. When he re-unites with childhood friend "Daisy" (Cate Blanchett) and becomes her lover, the film bogs down in a few spots but few people are going to stop watching after investing two hours. It picks up again, especially in the last minutes when "Benjamin" begins to finally become younger than an adult.There's a sadness to this story, especially near the end but overall, even though it's central theme seems to be "death," I don't think it's a depressing film. It does remind us, in a big way, that the longer we're around, the more death of friends and loved ones we witness. That's just a sad fact of life. I hear about it all time with my father, who is 91 years old and has seen almost all of his friends die.It's especially true in this story when Benjamin starts off and has a lot of old friends to begin with! "Benjamin" was an odd person to me; you could root for him, yet not admire him. He often treated people only to satisfy his desires and could have been so much more. Yet, being "a fly on the wall" and observing his interesting life, was memorable, making this a film worthy of the time invested to watch it.In the end, the movie made me appreciate the friends I do have, and not to take any of them for granted as life passes us by so fast, no matter what direction we're headed!
__label__8 I had been awaiting to see this movie for some time. Alas, it was Christmas Day and you bet I was there to see the movie on opening day. I set my expectations really high on this film. I expected nothing short of brilliance with a film coming from director David Fincher, director of the masterful "Zodiac" and screenwriter Eric Roth, writer of the classic "Forrest Gump". The acting is brilliant in the movie. Brad Pitt and the marvelous Cate Blanchett share a fire that resonates so effortlessly out to the audience. Other performances are notable as well, such as Taraji P. Henson's as Benjamin's mother, and Tilda Swinton's as Benjamin's first lover. Another notable achievement in the film is the visual effects; none of it is overdone and it is quite convincing. The music in the film is great as well. The haunting and mythical music is composed by Alexandre Desplat. One thing that did surprise me in the film was the amount of comedy present, but I guess comedy's needed for a tale with such sorrow. I really do think that this film is a classic. And I would go and see it again. When I was walking out of the theater, some people complained that the movie was very good, but that it was too long. I disagree; I actually didn't want it to end. It's the perfect film to watch all snuggled up in a blanket during the dead of winter. All things aside, this movie is about the short time we're given with life and how we are to make the most of it. Even with a story as fictional as Benjamin Button's, the message rings true.
__label__8 Beginning with a crime-thriller and a fantasy film on his directorial résumé, it is safe to say that Matthew Vaughn may have already found his niche genre in the super-hero field despite only directing four films in seven years. His first super-hero project, 'Kick Ass,' opened in 2010 to solid critical acclaim and a finalized gross of three times the film's ordinary $30 million dollar budget. And after only two years, Vaughn returns with 'X-Men: First Class,' an origins story to accompany the Bryan Singer/Brett Ratner X-Men trilogy released between 2000 and 2006. It's intelligent, enthralling, well-acted, stylishly directed, and most importantly by focusing heavily upon the relationship between the two central protagonists, it does not feel like a conventional super-hero film.Set within the political context of the Cuban Missile Crisis in the early 1960's, Charles Xavier (James McAvoy) is an up-and-coming Professor whose life is drastically altered when he is introduced to the other members of society who also share the same mutant gene as himself that supplies them with super-human abilities and traits. After stumbling upon the shape-shifting Raven (Jennifer Lawrence) within his mansion, the telepathic Xavier then encounters Erik Lehnsherr (Michael Fassbender), the son of Jewish parents who were murdered during the holocaust by the narcissistic former Nazi scientist, Sebastian Shaw (Kevin Bacon). Erik, who can manipulate all metal objects around himself, wants retribution and nothing more from Sebastian who is now a successful and evil underground figurehead who commands a team of mutants (Azazel, Emma Frost and Riptide) to do his bidding for him. But, once his plan for world domination is revealed, they find that it far exceeds the constraints of humanity, and Xavier, Erik and a rag-tag band of young, hide-away mutants (Havok, Beast, Darwin, Angel and Banshee) who were discovered by Charles, must combine their powers in one last attempt to stop Shaw from destroying the planet and humanity as a whole.Instantly where 'X-Men: First Class' works is in regards to its two central characters; Charles Xavier played by an incredibly affluently sounding James McAvoy and a rage-fuelled Erik Lehnsherr played by a stern-faced Michael Fassbender. Their instant on-screen chemistry provides the drive and ammunition for the plot to carry itself forward. Both characters have differing ideologies and their constant clashes due to this aspect allow the script to be brought to life. Instead of simply infusing their relationship with formulaic violent clashes, Vaughn has instead opted for more articulated verbal battles between the two characters regarding their stance within the society they are now becoming a part of. Xavier is an intellectual being who believes that humans will eventually be accepted within society as equals alongside humans, while Lenhsherr believes that mutants will always be hunted and unable to live peacefully side-by-side with the human race, his evidence for this resides in the anti-Semitism and hatred he received at the hands of the Nazi party during the holocaust. This heavy-set contradiction in ideologies allows their relationship to be imbued with pessimism, while they may be shown as friends and fighting together initially, fans of the comic books and films in general know this does eventually turn into a bitter rivalry and it's this development which drives the plot forward.Aside from the script, it would also be rude to not praise the action-sequences which take place within the confines of the 1960's X-Men universe. With a modest running time at two hours and ten minutes, there are more than a few well-choreographed action sequences that would adequately satisfy any of comic-book-to-film aficionado's wishing to see this film. Each character's power or ability is at some point represented in a destructive or defensive capacity, taking full advantage of the fact that while many super-hero movies tend to concentrate on the aesthetic nature of the artillery characters can be seen to withstand from governmental agencies or blindsided human opponents, here it is shown and constantly emphasized that human reaction would be futile due to the overwhelming power the mutants possess. These scenes also allow the less important characters to show their physical presence on-screen. For example, during the climactic fight sequence at the conclusion of the film, every mutant character that is identified to the audience is finally shown using their abilities to full capacity, most notably the henchmen of Shaw and the rag-tag team of Xavier and Lehnsherr. This therefore accounts slightly for the lack of depth that has been attempted in these secondary characters due to the time and story constraints.While it is a very good and accessible comic-book/super-hero movie, 'X-Men' does also contain two central flaws. The first is superseded in a way by the strength of both McAvoy and Fassbenders performances, as Kevin Bacon is constantly overshadowed as the one-dimensional antagonist of the piece. His plot to ultimately destroy humanity becomes second fiddle to the ever intricate complex relationship between Xavier and Lehnsherr, and his appearance seems too modelled upon that of a James Bond villain. He has the slick hair, the beautiful women and the villainous underground Club to boot, but Bacon unfortunately doesn't have the charisma to be accepted as a worthy opponent to the protagonists. The other flaw has to do with a minor aspect of the production itself, as the non-diegetic music, most notably during the action sequences, begins to diminish in its impact as the film carries on, leading to it eventually becoming the generic, genre-related fanfare associated with the conventional comic-book films.'X-Men: First Class,' is not your typical comic-book movie, it may contain certain elements associated with the comic-book genre, but by placing a heavy emphasis upon the strength of the plot and the script at the film's core instead of the action-set-pieces taking place, Vaughn has intended, and succeeded, in transcending the stereotypical conventions of the genre and has created a film which will appeal to a wide range of audience members.
__label__8 Normally prequel movies are made because the main characters of the first movie died (or in the end achieved their goals) and the producers still want to make money out of the franchise. Think Butch Cassidy & The Sundance Kid, Psycho, the (still to be made?) I am legend and of course George Lucas's Star Wars saga. X-Men First Class also falls into that category, but I cannot imagine that anybody will be complaining about that. Director Matthew Vaughn created a great, thrilling and sometimes even moving picture that without any doubt will get raving reviews and be a huge commercial success. God knows both movie and director deserve it.What makes X-Men First Class really work is the great story. It tells us about the beginning of the mutants and especially the friendship between professor X (a charming James McAvoy) and Erik Lensherr/Magneto (an impressive Michael Fassbender). Although they will drift apart at some time, you know that they will always have respect for each other. In this stage they even become close friends. The movie opens during World War 2, when young boy Erik is taken to a concentration camp (like the opening of the first X-Men movie). There he meets Sebestian Shaw (a great Kevin Bacon), a scary Joseph Mengele-like scientist who likes to experiment on Jews and is especially interested in mutants. In order to force Erik into helping him he shoots his mother. Erik never forgives him for that and spends his whole life looking for revenge. Unfortunately he learns that Shaw is also a mutant. The scientist is even so powerful that it's almost impossible for Erik to kill him. Luckily he bumps into Charles Xavier...What I also like about First Class is that the movie takes place in the past (the sixties) and uses historical events (the Cuba crisis and the Cold War) to make its point. Erik claims that no matter how many times mutants save the world, normal people will always see them as enemies. Professor X still wants to believe in the good of the people. With that message the foundation is laid for X-Men 1-3.The performances in First Class are first rate. Kevin Bacon is a brilliant villain. His German is actually quite good and his opening scene can already be considered as a classic. He also speaks Russian in the movie by the way. Michael Fassbender (Magneto) represents the most exciting drama in the story. He's kinda like Darth Vader. You know he will turn to the Dark Side but you still hope that somehow he will stick with professor X.First Class will be the beginning of super stardom for actress Jennifer Lawrence. She plays Raven in the story, a girl Xavier adopts as a real sister/best friend. She later becomes Mystique. Jennifer won critical acclaim with her role in Winter Bone and will play the lead in the much anticipated The Hunger Games movie, to be released in 2012. She is a great, vulnerable Mystique who later on chooses Magneto over 'her brother' Professor X. So what's more to tell? January Jones as Emma Frost is sexy as hell, the special effects in the movie are great and there are not one but two cameos from actors from the first X-Men movie (and no, the second one is not Patrick Stewart). Unlike previous Marvel movies there is no extra scene after the end credits and Stan Lee does not have a small part in this one. Overall First Class makes you think of the Sean Connery Bond movies and the reboot of Star Trek (2009).So... are you convinced? Just go see this excellent movie. Can't wait for its sequel!9/10
__label__8 I love the Xmen, I won't beat around the bush. There are so many mutants, heroes and anti-heroes that you relate can to at least one of them. The franchise has had its ups and downs. The first two films made the superhero genre what it is today. Stunning set pieces, breath taking special effects and a group dynamic that was brilliantly cemented in the second film. The third struck a middle ground where the spectacle overshadowed the narrative but was still a fun ride, and the last title Xmen Origins: Wolverine, was the only miss-step in the series. Xmen first Class is really very good. It manages to keep up with the first two whilst retaining an originality in its own right.The Direction is great, Vaughn's clearly got a knack for angles and keeping the audience engaged whilst the story chops and changes. The look of the film is modern, yet still has a 60's and almost retro look about it. The special effects are very good, though some how not quite up there with Xmen: The Last Stand. The energy is fast and relentless and the action sequences blend in with the dialogue sequences seamlessly.The acting is very good, though Patrick Stewart and Ian Mckellen are definitely missed, McAvoy and Fassbender do excellent jobs and really are in keeping with the characters you already know and love. Emma Frost and Sebastian Shaw are deliciously malevolent and Moira Mctaggart is perfectly pitched. My only reservation about the acting in the film is of Mystique, who I believe wasn't quite right, her motives in the film don't seem in complete continuity with the rest of the films.A sequel has already been planned and I shall be eagerly awaiting it. Having Storm back in the series would be a personal highlight for myself, but not necessary. I would highly recommend this film to anyone that has watched the original films and even for newcomers.One thing I will add that I have noticed since watching the original trilogy is that in 1980 Charles is walking, but according to First Class he loses this ability in the 60's...
__label__8 The biggest problem of these prequels is it's kind of messy to the original X-Men movies. Well, the filmmakers said this is a reboot but there are some references to the original X-Men series. Anyways, "X-Men: First Class" is fun and had a lot of great action. It's the biggest X-Men movie ever made and it's better than the last two X-Men movies.The filmmakers stated that this movie is a reboot but things from the old X-Men movies had an appearance to this movie. The problem of giving reference from the old X-Men movies to this reboot is it doesn't make this movie stand alone. Maybe the references only made for the laughs but if this is a prequel then it'll be a total mess.The best parts goes to the action(obviously). Matthew Vaughn knows how to make big and awesome action scenes. The best parts also goes to the scenes of Michael Fassbender. He really steals the show. He made Erik/Magneto more dangerous than ever. It's fun and intense to see him do something menacing. The rest of the cast is also pretty good. James McAvoy gave a lot of heart to his role. Him and Fassbender had good chemistry.Overall, "X-Men First Class" is good especially if you are looking for large scale action. I guess large scale is one thing that's missing to the first four X-Men films. X3 had a large scale action that left us hanging in the end. This one has the action finale that is intense and really big. Maybe the reference of the old X-Men movies is only made for the laughs. By the way this is Matthew Vaughn's thing. There's action plus comedy.
__label__8 The same people who to me are surprisingly rudely negative about this film would probably say I'm too easily pleased, but I enjoy movies as escapism for the most part and see no need to pick this very enjoyable vehicle to death. Actually, some early negatives I'd read had me worried that I would be irritated I spent the money, instead I've already decided to buy this when it comes out.Overall, I'd say if you like romping easy movies like The Mummy, National Treasure, and Lake Placid you'll like this, plus refreshingly (without being sickeningly sweet) there is not one swear word or sexed-up scene, so take the older kids and Grandma. I thought Nicolas Cage was excellent, he looked great and can wear a leather duster better than most, and there was some nice chemistry between Cage and Baruchel. Alred Molina looked like he was having fun and is such an enjoyable villain. Baruchel does a good job - he is so geeky at times it is a tad painful - and I found myself rooting for him. The 2 main female characters are lovely and appealing personalities.More pluses: A lively pace and I never lost interest plus a fair number of laughs. Some interesting character twists with the oily young rock-star magician helping Molina, and some very funny cheeky nods to the original animated Fanatasia - watch for the nod to Star Wars. Great and interesting special effects that made sense when they were used. Even the way the actors moved when they were doing magic was very good (for some reason the wand-waving in Harry Potter sometimes reminds me of people using a flyswatter or shaking a bug off a stick, that didn't happen in this film).So no, this isn't some classic of cinema, it is what it is and is a bit thin here and there, but it's also quite good for a "magical romp" and is in no way a bad film or a waste of money. I could have done without the occasional background songs which seemed designed to emphasize romantic angst or appeal to young teenagers, but that was bearable. I saw this at an early evening show and there were not many people in the theater, but we all laughed and there was applause at the end, and we left the theater smiling. Personally I think the critics panning this are full of BS or are trying to prove what intellectuals they are. In the meantime see this with your family or take your friends, and then go out and get some ice cream and sit outside and enjoy summer. Hope they make a sequel, too.
__label__8 Dueling sorcerers, a compelling back-story, top-notch acting talent, and the Disney brand bring the idea born of Fantasia's Sorcerer's Apprentice to the big screen in a live full movie adaptation. While this film did not fully live up to its potential, it is a fun movie which will find its way into the collection.This is silly and sappy just like any other live action Disney movie, and if allowed, will worm its way into the heart in a disingenuous way. If you view this film expecting Casablanca or the Godfather, you WILL be unimpressed. But if you go in expecting to be entertained, you shouldn't be disappointed.The action sequences between Cage and Molina aren't elevated as much as many would expect, due to the story centering around the kid's battle, not Balthazar's. This is another standard Disney formula wherein the kid is undeserving, unprepared, and uneducated in the ways of the Samurai but is thrust into the center of the fray, regardless. Those who would rail against this formula, obviously weren't there to see a Disney movie.All in all? The five of us ranging in age from 45 to 15, loved it. It is clever, and creative, marrying the science of magic known by today's standards with the arcane stories of our past. I found it intriguing and adventurous enough not to be preachy, while still managing to educate even the most unwilling movie goer.It rates an 8.4/10 from...the Fiend :.
__label__8 Jay B. is funny and charming in a believably nerdy fashion; Cage is at his quirky but charismatic best; the effects are plentiful and top notch; there's both a tragic love story and a young cute one plus a healthy dose of clever references to Disney's epic Fantasia (from which this film is partially inspired). If you read this list of attributes and it caught your interest and like the idea of centuries old sorcerers doing battle across New York in spectacular fashion then it wont matter what any other review says, you're going to want to check this flick out. It's funny, the cast is likable and there's a freaking dragon tearing up Chinatown (and that isn't even the finale!). On the other hand if all of this made you cringe, well nothing is going to persuade you to see it either. The truth is SORCERER'S APPRENTICE is fairly predictable, and the opening few minutes suffer a great deal from a completely distracting (and not needed) bit of narration but it is also solid matinée fun that I know I (and apparently the theater of folks I saw it with) really enjoyed.
__label__8 Believe it or not, this is actually a pretty good movie. I was annoyed with a few aspects of the movie such as my extreme annoyance with Jay Baruchel. But I think Nic Cage carried the movie. He is a very talented actor and he proves it in each movie he's in whether it's good or bad.This is about wizard named Balthazar who lives in modern day New York City. He has been searching for many centuries for the perfect kid who would be finally be his apprentice. He finally meets that kid and he trains him to be the one to save the world.The acting is pretty good. Of course Nic Cage is more than good. I was also impressed at Alfred Molina. Jay Baruchel is very annoying here. I just wanted to punch him in the face.People compare this movie for some reason to Harry Potter. I'll say now that this is no Potter. This film is no masterpiece like the Potter series but it still is good.Overall, this is a pretty good family movie. I would turn a deaf ear to the critics and watch this. I rate this film 8/10.
__label__8 First I should start off saying I love all Jerry Bruckheimer productions, with the exception of CSI: Miami, but that is more David Caruso then the show. I also feel I should admit that I was excited about this movie since I first saw the previews.That being said I felt the movie was very well put together in some ways not so much in others. I never read reviews until after I see a movie to be able to make my own ideas about it. Then I check to see it I'm in the minority. I'm shocked to say in this film I was. I felt that Nicholas Cage and Jay Baruchel did very well with the parts they were given. I do wish they had more screen time to gel a little better. Alfred Molina as usual does a wonderful job as the evil villain, but I wish his apprentice Toby Kebbell got more screen time. Some of the love story plot could have been given up for more magic scenes. I felt that Dave and Becky didn't really need all that screen time. I feel the movie is geared toward a younger audiences so to compare it to Inception is unfair no 10 year old is going to get that plot what so ever. Yes it was very predictable to me but not to my 5 year old sitting next to me. I went in expecting a well acted, predictable, easy plot, with some things that would make me chuckle, And that's exactly what I got.Overall the plot was easily understandable, the actions a little predictable, and the chemistry a little off with some of the characters. However give it a break I'm 23 and a mother of 4, and with all the children's movies I have seen this summer this is one I will actually buy when it come to DVD.Also I just have to say I love the main song Secrets by Onerepublic I have had it stuck in my head since I left the theater!
__label__8 Disney's The Sorcerer's ApprenticeBalthazar Blake (Nicolas Cage) is a master sorcerer in modern-day Manhattan trying to defend the city from his arch-nemesis, Maxim Horvath (Alfred Molina). Balthazar can't do it alone, so he recruits Dave Stutler (Jay Baruchel), a seemingly average guy who demonstrates hidden potential, as his reluctant protégé. The sorcerer gives his unwilling accomplice a crash course in the art and science of magic, and together, these unlikely partners work to stop the forces of darkness. It'll take all the courage Dave can muster to survive his training, save the city and get the girl as he becomes The Sorcerer's Apprentice.With a wonderful nod to the original Sorcerer's Apprentice scene in Fantasia, this is a fun summertime adventure for the entire family. The timing is perfect for a hit, being that this summer's run has so far been pretty dry, outside of a couple of films. The magic, adventure, humor and visuals are all pretty darned good in this movie.I invite all to don their "old man shoes" and settle in for an absolute magical adventure we have not seen the likes of in several years now.
__label__8 This movie depicts how a guy who has been picked on most of his life can rise up and be a hero. Jay Baruchel is perfect for this role. His mannerism and quirkiness was a perfect match for this lead. Picking a hunky actor would have been an injustice for what this movie was all about. I rarely buy a movie but this pic was so endearing that i had to have a copy. In addition the music was perfect - especially the ending song Phoenix burn by Alpha Rev. If you enjoy endearing characters along with special effects and excellent role casting then i highly recommend this movie. get the Blu-ray edition. I found a dual disc version on Amazon for $15 delivered.
__label__8 I liked the fact that the script of the movie is full of puns and rhymes taken from the original work. This makes the movie as interesting as the original Through the Looking Glass since Lewiss Carroll was famous with riddles and hidden messages in his works and he was known to include mathematical wonders in the writing such as the case of Alice in Wonderland. Maybe the plot was not greasy enough but overall it was a nice movie. The character that I liked most is Hatter( Johnny Depp) who has again striken me with his ability to wear different hats of roles and to impersonate himself in the character he's given. Also, the character of Alice was a fit with her angelic smile that reflects an innocent adult.
__label__8 I loved this movie, and I think it was a great finale to the Shrek series. It wasn't the best movie that I've seen, but it was still a great movie.I loved how they brought back Antonio Banderaz as Puss In Boots, and I think he was my favourite in this movie, besides the lovable ogre Shrek. This movie made me laugh and cry in all the right places, at times it was touching and others times it was hilarious. Needless to say, it definitely tickled my funny bone.The story in this movie is very good, like I said it has it's hilarious moments and some tender ones as well. I'm not going to give away the story, but it was really good. Along with humor it also has villains as well, and even though I thought the movie was really great, i'm going to have to give Shrek 2 my vote.However, if your a fan of the Shrek series, this isn't one to miss, it's a great movie for the whole family to enjoy.
__label__8 First off, i would like to point out Duncan Jones has made another fantastic flick. Better than source code, but me personally i loved moon so.... Warcraft isn't good enough to beat it lol. So Everything about this movie felt right. And i would like to point out this movie is about the warcraft storyline (First game) Not World Of Warcraft. The acting was good, the pacing was great. The CGI was amazing! Gul'dan was an awesome villain. Never heard of Daniel Wu But i feel like he will be voice acting more characters soon. I love how they wear that ridiculous armor that a normal person can't stand up in. Lothar was an amazing main character, and I only know Travis Fimmel because he's in the show vikings but i feel like if the rest of the critics like this movie this could be his breakthrough movie. If there is a sequel then i would definitely go and see it. And lads, The Video game curse is broken! Hopefully Assassins Creed will live up to the hype! Fans will love it, people who like lord of the rings or the hobbit will love it, just regular people who has never played WoW will love it! All in all, i think that the hype was well worth it and it is definitely going to be a recommend for me! After you have seen Captain America go see Warcraft, you wont regret it.
__label__8 First of all let me say that I never played Warcraft but I played other blizzard Games like Starcraft, Diablo and Overwatch. I enjoyed a lot this movie and want more, much more. I have to say that the movie is actually very good (not great, but very good). The CGI is awesome, they should as example to the next Hulk. The movie could be better? Yes, but honestly, this is probably the best adaptation of a video game. I had no problem to follow the story, the plot is simple (could be better). The names are very complicated to remember (lol). The orcs are the core of the movie, they are much more interesting them the humans in my opinion. I believe the director was so focused in have the CGI right that maybe he forgot the human actors. I don't understand why the "professional" critics were so harsh with this movie.
__label__8 I am a huge Terminator fan. Terminator 2 is my favorite movie ever, and I find it to be the best movie ever made.So yeah, this review is biased, but not to an extreme degree.Let me just say: Yes, there is some cheesiness to this movie, but I just don't really care. I want entertainment.Terminator Genisys is an excellent movie for Terminator fans. It's for the fans. It's the Terminator sequel we deserve. I'm one of those who liked Terminator 3, but Genisys is definitely more in tune with Camerons original two.If you are not a fan, though. First off, why are you not a fan? Either you are too young, or you.. well, what the hell's wrong with you!? (Kidding...A little bit) Anyway, if you are not a fan this is still an entertaining action movie. It looks really good, the effects are pretty much top notch, the action is entertaining, the parts that are supposed to be are exciting, the acting is mostly solid. Some reviews I've seen say it's devoid of humor, but I disagree. There are small jokes sprinkled pretty evenly around.But for the fans.. Oh my. This is so in tune with Camerons originals! I think the only one who could have made this any better is Cameron himself. Of course, it would have been a much better movie-experience if the trailers hadn't spoiled so much, but whaddayagonnado!? When there's a trailer for a new Terminator-movie, I'm gonna see that trailer. But even if the trailers spoiled a lot, I won't. I will say this though. There are a lot of nods, references, and direct connections to Camerons originals here. You will recognize plenty of stuff. Some big, some smaller. Sound effects, visual stuff, it is very true to Camerons vision. Very nice. And the song, oh, just pierces my heart!I am also happy to say that they have brought back some of the more emotional concepts that we loved from T2, and that was sorely missing from T3. Not to the same extent as in T2, but still, a lot better than the two previous entries.Funny thing is that almost none of the main actors are American, haha. Austria, Australia, England, Korea representin'! Anyhow, the actors are all good. I'm not super loving Jay Courtney, but he did alright. Emilia, Jason, Byung-hun - all real good. Seeing Arnold again, damn! He is just great. Just seeing his name at the beginning, I almost teared up! The fact that it's PG13 didn't bother me much either. Yeah the blood was awesome in T2, but it's alright that we don't get it here. As for the nudity, it wouldn't have hurt us, but hey, partial nudity is alright too. Anyway the rating doesn't take anything away, there's still plenty of violence. It is just fantastic to see Terminator-stuff made with 2015- technology. Those endoskeletons.. Awesome! And a certain scene partially lifted from a certain movie, damn! So cool to see.I haven't got much bad to say, some of the dialogue and one-liners could have been a tad better, a couple of the jokes are a little overused, but it's mostly nitpicking I think. Also, yes, there are plot holes, but what do you expect? The whole premise of Terminator is impossible anyway.I can honestly say, as a life long (I saw T2 the first time when I was really little) Terminator-fan, I enjoyed the hell out of this. Already looking forward to seeing it again. It was at times perfect. Very entertaining.Now go see it people, so it makes good in them boxoffices. I want more of these!
