__label__1 I have never been so close to leave the movie theater, as i was when seeing Avatar. Sure, it's very beautiful to look at, but, if you've seen the trailer, then you've seen the movie! It's basically every movie clichés put together in one horrible and so unoriginal movie. it's a mix of the "last samurai" meets "Pocahontas" meets "Atlantis"! it's by far the most horrible storyline since Ed Woods' "plan 9 from outer space".Not once are you surprised by the turn of events in this movie, and there's so many bad movie clichés in it, and so many things that just doesn't make any sense at all (even in their universe). for example, the last fight scene with the giant robot and the Avatar. It really doesn't make any sense at all, that the robot is carrying a 8-foot-1 hunting knife, just in case he loses his gun (which could easily have been attach to the robot!), and that the robot tells the avatar, what he's about to do, instead of just doing it (A good example of a bad cliché).If you want to see this movie, i recommend you either see the trailer ( as that is enough for you, to litterily, call every scene in the movie) or you go out and buy Atlantis and just Imagine it with smurfs instead of underwater people.
__label__1 I realize I am probably going to get flames galore for this comment, and you all have the right to your opinion about my opinion, but hey, I'm entitled to my opinion too. Avatar is grade A crap. That's right, it's crap. I say this for one simple reason: Without the special effects this movie would never, ever captivate and take a hold of audiences like it has in the past week. Ask yourself this one question: If it didn't have the effects, the Navi plugging their hair into the trees like it's a damn broadband jack, mech suits(just like the ones in Matrix Revolutions) and barely futuristic ospreys, would you care about this movie at all? It's a truism when they say this movie is nothing more than Dances with Wolves in space. Some people may argue back that Star Wars borrowed from Hidden fortress, but at least it had enough compelling plot points to make it look different, such as I don't know... the force? The Death Star? Outer space? A location that has NOTHING at all to do with Earth? This important set of points clearly differentiates Star Wars and Hidden Fortress. But The difference between Avatar and Dances with wolves is... CGI. This CGI may be pretty but it cannot ever substitute for story and plot development. Speaking of, the characters save but a few are either very bland or stereotypes. The worst part is the story and the movie gives us no reason to care about the characters. You know what? I'll go one step further and say that the only difference between Avatar and a Star Wars prequel is this: Avatar has an environmental story that we can relate to. That's it. True, the action scenes in Avatar are well done, but hell, the action scenes in the Star Wars prequels were also arguably well-done. Still, there's that nagging lack of story development. Avatar is a huge let-down and doesn't belong on the best-of list of anybody with common sense.
__label__1 At the risk of repeating what countless others have said, this movie is blatant plagiarism. If a film student submitted the Avatar screenplay to an instructor, he/she would have been given an F. Colleges expel students for less obvious ripoffs than this. If you've watched Pocahontas or Dances With Wolves, you know the drill. The only difference is the ending, which has the pretty blue humanoids escorting humans to their Earth-bound ships at gunpoint, which I freely admit is a rather neat sight since my ancestors were American Indian, Irish, and Scot. As a result, I am perhaps overly sensitive to the plight of a civilization driven from their homeland and/or oppressed by a conquering nation - er, planet.However, originality is not James Cameron's strong suit, so my disappointment is directed more at WETA. Yes, my beloved WETA, who impressed me throughout the years but completely stole my heart after the masterful rendering of all things Tolkien in the Lord of the Rings Trilogy. I had two reasons for seeing this film. One was a 13-year-old boy, the other was my anticipation over what wonders WETA would lay at my feet.Now, had the budget not been nearly half a billion dollars, I'd have understood the cartoonish creations, but as it stands there's no good reason for the results. Viewers are praising this film as revolutionary. I call "horsesh!t". This was nowhere near the caliber of WETA's LOTR work, their King Kong work, or their X-Men work. In fact, it wasn't even up to snuff with their Narnia production. The quantity of work was greater, not the quality.I've never reviewed a film in my life. I actually registered here for the sole purpose of expressing my resentment at having wasted $20 bucks and 3 hours on such nonsense. Booooooo.
__label__1 First I didn't want to go watch Avatar because when I heard Cameron took 3 weeks to write the plot I said to myself there is no hope for cinema anymore. And somehow people are showing me that I was right. I went to watch this piece of .... because I have been told it s unbelievable.Storywise, there is no story at all. It's the typical good vs bad scenario shaped out of cowboys against indians in space mixing it with a yogi everything connects us to the world impression plus a goddamn planet called Pandora and looks like f...in' paradise. Lot's of shiny colours and huge monsters who eat flesh are your best friends. Come on. You gotta be kidding me.Maybe I might be the only one here, cause all reviews I've seen got great score, but that is not what a movie is supposed to be. I was very unimpressed by the CGI and the artistic development because I might be used to computer games such as Final Fantasy series which has been the shaper of such incredible stories, only that these games have a very strong story to tell and and you feel totally involved.It impresses me that people give this such a high rating because of it's visuals. I mean it was clear that sooner or later a movie would appear with such incredible CGI. If it wouldn't have been Avatar another would have been the winner.I am sad that nowadays cinema is ail centered only about violence, good looks and a huge lack of brain.3 out of ten only for the cgi which I thought is not the center of a movie otherwise I would have rated it beneath 0.
__label__1 I actually enjoyed this quite a bit, but I am giving it a 1, because I cannot believe that it deserves an 8.8, which is what it is getting this evening, mostly apparently due to suspicious ratings from countries like Slovakia, India and Australia. Not that I have anything against those countries, it just strikes me as odd that so few good reviews are coming from the United States. I'm not saying that IMDb's ratings are being manipulated by some sort of conspiracy, I am just saying it is odd. Anyways, rather than try and balance my review with what was good (the visuals, the 3D, the sound effects), am just going to say what really sucked. Can I say "sucked" in my review? Guess I will find out.1. "Unobtainium." Really, "unobtainium?" Was this a kid's cartoon? 2. Sigourney Weaver's confused and cartoonish scientist character. She's tough, she smokes, she has a heart of gold, and her Avatar dresses like Dora the Explorer. Also, why try and make her look twenty years younger than she is? I can't tell if they used CGI, Botox, or a ton of make-up, but she looked like the female version of the Picture of Dorian Gray. What a waste of talent.3. Hundres of years in the future, they can create magical avatar clones and transmit brain signals to them, but they still use flimsy wheelchair thingies? 4. Less than a half dozen animals on Pandora, and all but the floating jellyfish are angry and violent. Really? No fish? No birdies? No toads, snails, foxes, puppy dogs, kitty cats, mosquitoes, or anything but those half dozen CGI creature types? Seems like Pandora was populated by a relatively cheap CGI outfit.5. The trees all communicate through synapses, and this is supposed to be ominous, yet this never turns into anything compelling. Did Jimmy Cameron get tired of his own idea? Or was it to hrd to animate something more interesting? 6. Almost half a billion dollars to make this?!?!?!?!? 7. "Unobtainium?" "Unobtainium?????" 8. Cartoony tough military guy who does not have a clue how to organize a military campaign.9. The Na'Vi speak broken English that somehow becomes perfect English on and off throughout the movie. And the Avatars speak perfect English in normal tone of voice, identical to their human voices, although their bone structure is completely non-human?!?!?!? 10. Unobtainium I could go on and on, but you get the picture. This was like an extremely expensive and pretty kiddie cartoon. What a waste, and absolutely NOT deserving of the rating it is getting here.
__label__1 "Ok, I get it." That's a phrase I found myself saying an awful lot during this 2 1/2 hour computer game that was as painful to the brain as it was to the eyes.First, let's get the obvious out of the way. This film was expensive, in that it cost so much money to make you could solve at least one state's budget crisis with it. So why did it look like it was nearly all conceived on a computer? Not since the "Star Wars" prequels has the "fourth wall" ever been so demolished. Never once did I care about the characters or believe anything the actors tried to do because I knew it was completely artificial. Hell, people still complain about "Waterworld" being overpriced but at least people actually got off their duffs and did some real film shooting! This whole project stinks of imported bottled water and soy lattes. This film is the pinnacle of Hollywood overkill. An overblown, overpriced, overindulgent eyesore of a movie with a "message." Oh yes, the message. Underneath watching the latest in nerd fantasy-fulfillment with its CGI, is a liberal-minded jackhammer drilling into your psyche about the evil of American corporatism, military culture, and rich white men's greed. The noble intent of getting its audience to care about the environment is done in the LSD-esquire rainbow cornucopia of every Native American and African stereotype imaginable, all set to an "oweyo oweyo" New Age chorus that makes one actually pine for the sweet sound of the Jonas Brothers. I say this as a die-hard independent who has as much to say about environmental awareness as anyone with a college education, but the caricatures painted here border on MSNBC-levels of leftist philosophy. The bad guys are the Republican racist military and corporate oppressors, who refer to our heroes as "tree huggers" and the alien Navi as "savages," and see their violence against them as "fighting terror with terror." I'm not kidding, they actually use soundbites from the last decade as part of the script. One character actually refers to the military attacks as "shock and awe." If you don't want to heave from the vertigo-inducing sweep of the completely sterile computer-created world of Pandora, the dialog will surely get you to bending over the toilet cursing the day you ever thought this was worth even half its price tag.See, there was a movie made very recently that dealt with valid socio-political issues that was full of interesting characters and top-notch CGI at a fraction of "Avatar's" cost. It was called "District 9" and if you haven't seen it, do so and then come tell me what you thought of "Avatar." Because the former film was able to show the evils of racism without painting its characters as one-dimensional caricatures. It showed that greed knew no color boundaries, and that you can combine action with a message and not be beaten over the head with it.I would advise people to avoid this film, however I know that is next to impossible. This has become the new "Titanic," where seeing it is not only an option, but a requirement with some groups of people. I like to refer to those people as "STUPID."
__label__1 I heard that this film was going to be the benchmark in modern film making. I heard this film was to be the largest grossing film of all time, and perhaps even the most captivating. As a film lover I could not miss it, and to make sure I didn't miss out on everything James Cameron had to offer me, I saw it in the largest iMax cinema in England, in 3d. Keep in mind, I am now writing this review a week or so after seeing it so as to let my initial reactions subside and compose and sensible, rational and correct report on what I experienced, and yet my first words are still WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT?!Let me try and address this in an ordered fashion.Plot: Terrible, shameful and embarrassing. Not only to mention that it was almost an exact copy of Pocahontas (literally), it just wasn't at all interesting. You knew from the outset exactly how the film was going to end, it was cliché, boring and hamfisted from beginning to end. Anyone who can honestly say that the plot was captivating must be drunk, an idiot, or joking. Also, I know people go on about this, but seriously, UNOBTANIUM??? I understand trying to make a commentary on our endeavours as mankind, but calling the object unobtanium reduces the intellectual level to Sesame Street. Also, the fact that the Na'vi who could speak English went from relatively stunted English to perfect English and back again through out the film bothered me more than a little. And when the natives win that one battle, the humans, who desperately want this 'unobtanium' as it will make them all mindboggingly rich, and can afford to pay for whole armies to try and get it, give up? They just aren't going to come back? That's ridiculous, they'd nuke the place.Characters / Characterisation: Uni-dimensional to the end. No depth whatsoever. Prime example of this is the military captain who is, in all senses, a cartoon stereotype military captain, there was no reason or rhyme behind his actions apart from the fact that he is a military captain. The self-interested capitalist, who in the end was nothing more than a self-interested capitalist? No! Surely not! And the hero, who, from beginning to end, portrays no real traits that give him away to be anything other than a complete hero. Wow. I'm so impressed.Acting: No one captivated me. No one stood out. Even Sigourney Weaver, an actress who I usually hold in quite high esteem, was pretty poor. I blame Cameron.Special Effects: Yes. They were impressive. This is where my 1 star comes from. But, forgive me for being a bit of a traditionalist, but I think in any film no more than 1 star should ever be entirely devoted to special effects. That being said, they were impressive, they weren't biblical. It's not like I walked out of the cinema unable to speak from awe. Furthermore, aside from the technical quality of the special effects, the world itself was not that inventive, intelligently designed or beautiful. They were essentially in a jungle with a few animals that just looked like mutated versions of Earth animals. And some odd jellyfish type things. If you want truly beautiful films watch something like "Pan's Labyrinth" or "House of Flying Daggers", I'd say both of these have more impressive scenery than Avatar does. Directing:Uninventive. Nothing really new there. Impressive shots of scenery perhaps, but pretty much normal camera-work throughout. A very cheesy montage to show the hero and his woman getting closer and closer. A standard battle scene. No James Cameron, not impressive.The bottom line is this, I know and you know that if it wasn't for its 3D effects, and the fact that it had James Cameron's name attached to it, Avatar would probably have been straight to DVD. Some people have said that people don't like it because they don't understand Sci Fi. That's ridiculous. I love Sci Fi, it's my favourite genre. But compared with classics like Alien, or 2001, this was an affront. So shame on you James Cameron, for insulting our intelligence by thinking that nothing more than pretty lights are needed to make a good film. Though, in the end, I guess you were right, as most people seem to be inexplicably raving about it. Maybe all people want in a film are just pretty lights, and that's pretty sad to see.Poor, poor show.
__label__1 (contains spoilers... but trust me, that won't matter).it's safe to say that Johnny Depp single-handily made the 'pirate' series a success. if not for Depp telling interviewers Keith Richards inspired his captain jack-isms, Keith Richards would certainly not have appeared in the 3rd movie. in between the excessive amount of canon balls/sword fights scenes, i couldn't wait to get home and tear this movie to shreds. it's such an easy formula: three parts jack sparrow, eleven parts talking about jack sparrow, two parts love stories, six parts pirate ships emerging from water, five parts capturing, five parts rescuing and ten parts action/violence/sword fights. mix haphazardly against elaborate sets and computer graphics. let set for three hours until the audience rises.the movie could be broken down into FOUR major flaws:POOR WRITING. it seemed the writers were very aware that audiences were only going to see 'Pirates' for Jack Sparrow, so they thought... "hmmm, if people love Jack so much... they'll love THREE jacks, or FOUR jacks, or even MORE Jacks!!" so they made scenes reminiscent of Alice in Wonderland where Jack hallucinates and sees many of himself. the mood and overall appearance of these scenes drastically contrast with the mood and overall appearance of the film. for a minute i thought i was watching an Oompa Loompa scene from Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.TOO MANY CHARACTERS: accompanying poor writing was the addition of too many characters. in a nutshell: jack's crew (which was two crews combined), the British crew, the squid's crew, and a new Asian crew all have different agendas that (of course) require the other crews to be killed. Elizabeth (Knightly) becomes captain of the Asian crew, Orlando bloom becomes captain of the squid crew and Jack bounces between every crew as he is traded and captured for deal-making. Orlando bloom's character wants to free his father, Jack wants to be immortal, Kiera Knightly's character wants to be with Orlando Bloom again, the squid wants the sea goddess, Elizabeth wants to kill the British captain for killing her father, the British crew wants jack dead and the Asian crew wants to be a part of whichever crew is getting the treasure. but is there even treasure?!! the object they're all after is a beating heart. and yes, it's as confusing as it sounds.OLD JOKES. just like the second, all of the "comedic" moments in the third movie relied on recycled material from the first movie. the humor in 'pirates' can be attributed to six subjects: 1) the wooden eye: kudos to whoever thought to give that guy a wooden eye because you added 30 pages of plot to each film!! 2) jack, the monkey: the only character whose acting improved by the third film. he's also in a lot more of the scenes in the third movie. my boyfriend thought he was the best part. and he was right. 3) rum jokes: the first movie relied heavily on rum jokes. since the third movie didn't know what the hell it was doing, it hit up the booze too. 4) the sexual tension between jack and elizabeth. the cliché "trust me, it would have never worked between us..." lines return again. 5) jack getting slapped: yes, women love to slap jack sparrow. we got that one already, thanks. 6) sheer stupidity/slapstick humor: the other nanoseconds of anticipated (but unreceived) humor relied on the dumb antics of the fat guy and the skinny guy with the wooden eye. CONFUSING PLOT. it felt as though the writers made this movie up as they were filming it and when they were running low on plot someone said, "i know, let's make one of the crew members turn out to be a sea goddess!!" and since there are only two female main characters (one being Kiera Knightly), the Jamaican-sounding chick landed the role of sea goddess. this made the plot entertaining for about 20 seconds when the Jamaican chick turned into the 50 ft. woman and started talking like the Stay-Puft Marshmallow Man and then exploded into millions of crabs at which point i leaned over to my boyfriend and said, "haha, she had crabs!!" needless to say, i don't plan on seeing the 4th or 5th or 6th Pirates movie. but i will be curious to see if Depp stays aboard. bottom line: if you were planning on seeing pirates, go see Waitress instead. written by: Jena Ardell
__label__1 I haven't hated a film in a long time. Usually, I can sit through bad or boring films with a shrug and find its hidden merits. During Pirates 3 however, I was beset with ill-feeling. I hated this movie.Perhaps it was due to the fact that I haven't seen Pirates 2 since last year, or maybe it's just me, but this film was making no sense! Characters would change sides without any apparent reason or consequence. Chow Yun-Fat was around for about ten minutes of screen time, and did nothing. And the love angle between Keira and Orlando was nonsense. The final beach scene anyone? And Johnny doesn't even show up for at least 20 minutes! (His first scene was the best one in the film in my opinion.) And the thing is, I really enjoyed 1 and 2. Pirates 1 was great and 2 was tolerable. But for some reason, this installment triggered something in my mind that I could not let go.And SPOILER OK they have a god. What do they come up with? Let's turn her into a giant, have her grunt in low bass tones, and then turn her into thousands of crabs... Hmmm... Right.But... everyone's going to see this anyway. I mean, they got my $10 right?
__label__1 Crap!!! Terrible, terrible CRAP! I feel sorry of those who think that this is a 10-star movie. I was bored, then frustrated, and at the end angry. I can't believe that somebody is ready to spend so much money but can't make a decent script or at least cogent story. The dialogs are stupid most of the time, monologues are idiotic (exept the monologues of Sparrow with himself) - especially the cry for battle and freedom of Keira at the end of the film: I felt sick... This kind of films destroy the film as an art, as something beautiful, something that can wheedle the emotions out of you, something that you'll think about and remember for a long time. This film is a product that need's to be sold. It is consumer oriented and could be rated with 10s only in consumer oriented society.
__label__1 OK. So the first one was a great movie. second one was alright. So i went to the midnight showing of Pirates and accidentally fell asleep during the hour and a half of pointless content that is the first part of the movie. I went and saw it again and watched every minute and let me say, it was so bad and the plot line so choppy that once the movie was over i was unsure of the definitions of reality. Quite literally, i could have made a better movie with no camera. Jack Sparrow went insane, Elizabeth Swan learned to fight with the best of them, and suddenly the kraken, which was the basis of the second movie, got killed and ridden off in one line of dialogue. The writers of this movie should quit. and i don't mean just writing. i mean living. how do you screw up this movie? all you have to do is write a story about going to rescue jack without the driving over waterfalls, turning into crabs, or creating another movie's worth of plot about pieces of eight, which in the end got put in a bowl and burnt which made smoke that could have been drawn better with a dull rock. by the way, when you put magic into a movie, i don't want it explained. at all. just say what happened and ill catch up. because i know how people can be brought to life *cough cough* Barbosa *cough cough*. This movie SUCKED.
__label__1 Well, after seeing Pirates II, I didn't think it was possible for III to be any worse.... I was wrong. This is quite possibly the worst film I have ever seen. I understand that some movies are made just for ridiculous, but fun, action sequences and little or no plot line, and you can definitely tell which movies those are, but this one tried to have a decent plot, and failed miserably. Yes, the action sequences were fantastic and full of some of the most ridiculous stunts imaginable, but they in no way saved the horrible attempt at a plot line. With hardly any character development, far less Jack Sparrow than there should have been, the abandonment of the love triangle, the overly-dramatic attempt for an epic, and the complete lack of trying to be at least somewhat historically correct, the writers have caused cinema to reach a new low.The first problem with the movie is that Jack Sparrow isn't seen for half an hour. Johnny Depp is pretty much what has made the Pirates films. And when you do finally get to see him, he has been downgraded to the status of comic relief, rather than the humorous hero he has played in the past. It is because of this that you actually start to wish that you see less of him. The corny, one-line jokes that just seem to perpetually flow forth from his mouth get old very, very quickly.The second problem is, of course, the total lack of true interaction between the characters. Most of their speech is devoted to furthering the already failing plot, and the little that is actual development of their relationships is poorly written. Though I hated the idea of the love triangle between Will, Elizabeth, and Jack introduced in Pirates II, I was sad to see them completely abandon that idea, acting almost as though it had never happened.The main problem that I had with the plot for this film is that it never really settled down. It was either moving forward far too fast for most of the audience to keep up with, or so dead still that half the audience was falling asleep (though the latter was far rarer). Plus the introduction of so many different plot devices and magic just made the story seem so implausible. I mean, I am a firm believer in the willing suspension of disbelief in small doses (such as the amount of disbelief I had to suspend in the first film), but if I was going to actually enjoy this movie, I would have had to have suspended it for almost the entire length of the film, and that's hard to do for near three hours.And finally, the first film, as far as I know, was pretty much on par in terms of historical accuracy and pirate mythology. That is, it was very true to the era it was based in, and didn't have to add in all sorts of fantastical, magical things to give the film a sense of adventure. The only magic involved was the curse of the medallions. Which, while it may have dominated most of the plot, was rooted in some history and was presented in a plausible way. For that, I can suspend my disbelief. But when they start giving physical manifestations to Davy Jones (granted that was introduced in the second film, but still) and start calling Greek sea-nymphs (Calypso) Pirate goddesses; I'm sorry but I just can't do that. Not to mention them trying to claim that the pirates, as treacherous and murderous as they were, were actually all united under one flag is just ridiculous. No historical value (and very weak story value) whatsoever.All in all, this film surpassed how terrible I expected it to be so horribly that I am honestly considering walking back to the theater and asking for compensation for the three wasted hours of my life.
__label__1 I came. I slept. I left. I wasted my time what a piece of garbage. The thing doesn't move at all, it lasts forever, scenes are overly drawn out and several of them are redundant. It took the film about an hour to establish some sort of premise otherwise it was just wasting its time with eye candy and gimmicks. The acting, including Johnny Depp who was great in the first film, was all flat and boring. The grotesque sea creates Davey Jones and his minions lost whatever appeal they had the feeling of repulsion separated from all other emotion isn't effective. The Black Pearl had at least some legs to stand on, however, wobbly. This series followed (or follows I shudder at the thought) a progression of getting progressively worse and longer. The first was good but too long by a half an hour, the second bad and too long by 45 minutes this one was god awful and shouldn't have started in the first place. Orlando Bloom's character doesn't really die which is a joke and I didn't care about anything that happened in it for a second. And the ending, or should I say endings, may be in fact worse than The Return of the King because at least those multiple endings were preceded by a great film. This one was barely watchable. I liked the first Pirates of the Caribbean a lot and felt, due in part by running time, that I wanted to see the story resolve itself though I really could care less. Now I wish I hadn't.
__label__1 I love action adventure movies. Indiana Jones, Jurassic Park, and yes, Pirates of the Caribbean. But not this movie. Not by a long shot. Whereas the first movie was fun and original, and the second one a little more cartoony but just as entertaining, this third Pirates film just nose dives, completely missing that mark each and every time.Jack Sparrow was such a cool character in the first two pirates films. He seems so uncomfortable here. Depp almost appears bored with the part. Orlando Bloom is not a good actor. He's annoying, and I have no idea why. Furthermore, his character is a pain to watch. Whose side is he on? What is he fighting for? Why should I care? He is, at this point, the only thing making it possible for there to be an overblown cliché love triangle between Jack, Elizabeth, and Will. And folks, men and women, you're not watching Keira for her acting. She's not good at that. But looking hot in just about anything (less is more, in this case) is something she does exceedingly well. I'll watch her for that. Other performances - dull. Drawn-out. Uninteresting. But I will say this: the best overall performance in this film comes from Jack Davenport, as Norrington. He plays it with such conviction, such sincerity, than even the dumbest of lines sound decent coming from him. The storyline sounded as though it could open a unique chapter in the story when he reappeared in Pirates 2, but I believe audiences will be very disappointed in how he's handled in this film.The plus side - good special effects. Negative side - everything else. Boring and dull performances all around (except by Davenport), a very slow and often confusing storyline that went no where without explosions or action sequences (the movie could lose forty-five minutes), and the broad sense that this film was both too rushed and too poorly conceived. Had the writers been given a couple years to really pound out a good script, the movie would have been as good as the other two. Instead, it truly stands out as being one of the worst movies I've ever seen.
__label__1 Pirate's 1 = AWESOME Pirate's 2 = OK Pirate's 3 = AWFULI do not recommend this movie. I feel that the writers ruined the plot with too many jokes, not enough plot, and too unrealistic of things. Like Jack Sparrow...why's he have doubles and shoulder angels? A very stupid effect in my opinion. I wish I could have said that these movies come to a good conclusion but I don't even understand the whole "let's get married during a big fight." What the heck! Who would get married during a fight. It seems like this movie went way passed my range of realism. I'm not saying the graphics were bad or the acting was bad. It was the driven plot. Again, if all of the movies were like pirates 1, i would be real happy right now. But, unfortunately they aren't.
__label__1 This movie is somewhat watchable if you manage to convince yourself that the hero is Ronald Bond, brother of the more famous and successful James Bond. Ronald of course, unlike his brother, is not the suave charmer and rascal type, but has more of a polish wrestler look and demeanor. This makes for some light comedy when Ronald is shown to be one of the few men that can't look smart and elegant wearing a suit, which incidentally only make him look more silly and distinctly out of place. Ronald also has to rely on fools luck more than skill and intelligence to save his ill conceived ways of handling things. At the start of the movie for instance, he manages to raze two entire blocks of houses whilst trying to perform the simple task of taking out a bad guy with a snipers rifle. Not only that, but he also manages to miss the intended target.He then proceeds to chase said villain into a helicopter that takes off and flies around over a huge crowd of people. Unlike his brother James, who would simply have disposed of the bad guy and then asked the pilot to land at some convenient location, Ronald finds it a good idea to also try and take out the pilot at the same time although should he succeed, the heli would undoubtedly crash into the crowd. Fools luck saves him this time though.We get another show of his ineptness later on when he escapes out of a window. Since the bad guys chasing him would have no option but to follow him the same route, his brother would undoubtedly just turned around, wait for them to exit and them pick them off one by one with his Beretta. Ronald here of course just continues running and tries to speed off in his car resulting in a car chase. Fortunately someone must have called in a bomb threat because the city, Rome, is almost completely devoid of people. I know this, because I have been in Rome, and there's people and cars everywhere.Later on when a woman he has, like only an idiot can, fallen in love with at first site gets kidnapped by bad guys he proceeds to go after them in an aeroplane. His brother would of course just kept his distance, landed close to where the kidnappers cars stopped, and then snuck over to take care of business. Not so Ronald, he proceeds to attack them with the plane itself, seemingly without a plan. After failing miserably, as predicted, the plane crashes through a wood. Sheer luck however, not skill, eventually makes it so that he ends up at the same place as the baddies, most of them disposing of themselves in a crash, and thus lets him save the girl.Ronalds plan for the end game has to be seen to be believed. After finding out somehow where the bad guy has his bad guy compound, Ronalds plan is simple; even though the villain knows his name, what he looks like and who he is, he will just go there, waltz right in, hope to be taken to the villain, tell him that he has come to kill him, and then do so. That's it, that's the whole plan. For some reason bringing a girl along also seems like a good idea.The villain first does the obvious to thwart this "plan": send someone to dispose of this idiot en route. When this fails (on a train, incidentally also most likely bomb threatened, because like Rome before it, it's empty) this villain changes his mind for some reason, and instead of shooting the fool right in the face on sight when he arrives, proceeds to house him, give him a guided tour of his lair and then hit him over the head and torture him for a while whilst revealing some back story so ridiculous it must have had the writers rolling on the floor with laughter. One can't help wonder what Ronalds contingency plan was throughout all this. The plot on it's whole is incomprehensible and stupid, apparently all the intelligence agencies in the world are about to pool into one giant data base that NONE of all the experts that thus must have been involved, with all their vast resources, have managed to find out is controlled by the bad guy. Incidentally, on the plus side, the bad guy also turns out to be an idiot who makes it only through luck. (watch how he miraculously survives not only the explosion of a hand grenade type watch (don't ask) thrown at him, but also the explosion of his whole bad guy hideout. (no explanation is of course given as to how he managed this) There's a fun sequence near the end that can only work if we assume that said bad guy spent some time printing out Ronald Bonds passport photo, as well as those of various friends and colleagues of his, and spent what must have been a considerable amount of time walking around a building taping these up presumable to unnerve Ronald when he arrives there. He also apparently went out to buy a spray can so the could spray "Bond" and an arrow on the wall. The latter implies that his plan actually hinged on the certainty that Bond would escape from the henchmen that captured him earlier on. There is however nothing that shows that the henchmen were intended to let him go so that he could reach this target, so why anyone would bother with the printing, spraying and taping when the odds of Ronald Bond actually getting there are extremely slim, is any ones guess.All great fun though but watching James Bonds brother clown and clumsy his way through an adventure like this makes one long for an actual James Bond movie, it has been too long!
__label__1 This is the worst Bond movie ever, filled with emotionless characters that I couldn't care less about. The pace of this film after a predictably exciting start is slow and boring. Unlike his fellow actors, Ben Whishaw as Q manages to portray the only believable human in this whole fake production. Why couldn't JB have been given a touch of Q's wit, humour or vulnerability? No wonder Daniel Craig wants out of this franchise - it's beneath his talent. Such a cacophony of totally forgettable dialogue, people and silly stunts is hard to imagine in a single movie and yet here it is. During one of the 'action' fights when James was being hammered by the evil assassin I noticed the person next to me had fallen asleep and was snoring. That person was an exceedingly eloquent critic.
__label__1 Wonder what the refund policy is at Premier Theaters. Of course they are not responsible for this fiasco. It just went on and on and on......plot meandering went nowhere...actors mumbling...no suspense, just one predictable scene after another. Some of the scenes looked like they were shot on my grandpa 8mm Kodak movie camera. And to boot, the "reality" of the fight scenes would meet a standard of a 5 year old. We all know this is not a documentary, but when Bond / Craig get pummeled by the bad guy on the train and his tie stays in place and he suffers not a scratch or a black eye where is the realism...The Islander aircraft flying with its wings clipped outboard of the engines?????.Come on Broccoli team - is this the best you can do? Sean Connery is rolling his eyes and chuckling at the new low in Bond movies. Wasted evening, could have snoozed on a couch instead of a movie theater. Now, let us face it..10 lines of comments on this almost two and a half hours of boredom is a task that even Sam Mendez could not master.
__label__1 Skyfall was superb so this had a lot to live up to and it doesn't.There are so many loopholes; Q was afraid of heights so how can he go in ski lift, London is very busy day and night so how can a helicopter crash into a bridge next to the houses of parliament when it is deserted, how does a car drive up a snow covered steep mountain side without skidding, why do the walls of railway carriages brake up like pieces of flimsy cardboard during a fight ? Etc.Then there is the quite gratuitous violence ( i.e. gouging a man's eyes out.) Plus the ridiculous shoot outs where Bond fells 50 other gunmen who all seem to be very poor shots.Which brings me to the plot - what plot ? This was so convoluted that it seems to have been made up as they went along. I had enough after the first hour but wanted to see how it ended - poorly.This film compares very poorly to either Hit-man or Bourne; Sam Mendies seems now to be the director to avoid.I am sure this film will make a fortune but as the saying goes "If million people like a stupid thing - it is still a stupid thing."
__label__1 I went into this movie blank.I had never seen any trailer, or read any of the reviews about it. But I was bored throughout the entire movie.I felt i was watching one of those 60-70's bond with the dated lines and the tiresome old clichés.And they are endless. As someone else in her put it,you feel like you're watching Austin powers instead. ************warning spoilers************spoilers*****************spoilers I mean you understand from the very beginning that his new boss is working for the enemy. And when the bad guys always find him wherever he goes,you sort'a know right away it's the tracker MI6 put in his body,that helps the bad guys. I felt I was watching a kid movie,with a plot written by a dilatant. Go watch true lies instead,much better movie,with better action. After watching this I get why Craig is tired of bond,cause this script is really bad
__label__1 This is truly truly awful... now at the outset I have to say Im a HUGE BOND FAN... I cannot believe how dull this movie was... both Daniel Craig and Sam Mendes both must have 007 Fatigue as they both 'phone this in' I know when writing reviews you have to be careful not to add spoilers.. but guess what, there aren't any.. as nothing happens for 2.5 hours... just lots of overly long scenes of people talking or walking down hallways or driving in the desert... God only knows what they spent the $250 million on.. maybe a really good catering truck... Id like to go into depth of how dull this is, but Im too sleepy... . Where do I line up to get those 2.5 hours of my life back... the only thing I can say is that this movie makes Quantum of Solace look REALLY good....
__label__1 James Bond or Agent 007 has been since it beginning in books and specially in movies the standard male fantasy. He can seduce any women, practice every sport and win, drink as much as he wished and never get drunk, live all the fashion. drive the best cars (preferable Aston Martin) or any other vehicle (like jets, Helicopters, boats) and fight and kill any enemy without regret. The Regan era; and sadly most of his followers; consider the emblematic British spy as a piece of crap and decided to moralize it; both Timothy Dalton movies kisses required an AIDS test. Luckily Pierce Brosnan's Bond was somewhat a back to the origins. He smiled and made jokes;, seduced women, drink and kill when necessary; but some Hollywood asshole and a few absurd critics; decided it was becoming a parody and wanted for Jason Bourne style. A killer without personality looking for vengeance. Those critics; obviously did not know or even care to understand that Bond's movies were meant for entertainment and never to be taken seriously. It gave us the people who lived and suffered the Cold War; some hope that WW III will not happen.But; the people who control movie industry decided to think for the people and very little care about public want. So they created this monster. Daniel Craig's Bond is basically a tortured person looking for vengeance. Humor is gone; and it is hard to believe a person without any kind of charisma could seduce anybody or even have any friend.His previous three movies; had at least a decent action scenes that compensated somehow for the lack of fun in the full movie; but this time Mendez and Craig decided to ruin everything for everybody.The peak of the movie is the short sequence before the titles. It is somewhat original (at least the helicopter part); but nothing after that comes even closer to be entertaining.To make matters worse; Tom Cruise's MI-Rogue Nation; has basically the same script. In fact Cruise's self righteous movie has infinite more humor and ten times more action than this absurd drama.Mendez who did a good thing with Javier Barden in the previous movie; waste in this one group of outstanding actors never letting do anything interesting.Christoph Waltz has little change to become an interesting villain and whenever he is able to show his charisma; something stupid happens (who has the stupid idea of making them foster brothers ?). Monica Bellucci is there for no reason. Léa Seydoux could have been replaced for a cardboard; since her chances to act are minimal. Ralph Fiennes looks bored in his short screen time; obviously because his character is not interesting at all.As I stated before; in terms of action; aside from the first scene; there is not much more. There are a car and plane chase that is interesting. a car chase that is too simple and too dark to enjoy, a few clichéd fights with Dave Bautista and others, a few shootings and an explosion at the end that is simple cheap.None of the action pieces makes a lot of sense and do not take more than half hour in total; so the other two hours of the movie are basically bad acting (Craig with this stone face), terrible dialog (everywhere) and a few postal shots of a train in the desert.It is obvious the movie was troubled when start and director; after making history on create the most successful Bond ever; both want to quit.Why they accepted, other than contractual obligations and a paycheck, are beyond my knowledge; but does not justify this disaster. We the public do not deserve this type of insult.In brief; a very bad movie that you should avoid and let the producers know this is not the kind of cinema we are willing to see.
__label__1 What makes things worse, is that its predecessors were basically intricate works of genius, but TDKR lacks essentially everything that made The Dark Knight (particularly) one of the greatest superhero movies ever produced. On top of all this, everyone's bandwagoning on thinking it's great because it's "supposed" to be great, right?!?! How could Nolan's finale not be a masterpiece?! Well, I'll tell you...Bruce Wayne acts out-of-character from not just the first two movies, but from the comic as well. Catwoman's motivation and place in the story is weak, flat, and forced. For a movie that's almost three hours long, you only get about 20 minutes of Batman in costume (if you're lucky). The movie jumps in weird time increments that are mildly confusing, but mostly forced to facilitate its wanna-be epic nature. As for more heavily SPOILERY observations...Commissioner Gordon is barely in the movie, spending most his time injured in a hospital, while Joseph Gordon-Levitt's character comes out of the blue and does what you'd expect the Commissioner to be doing... solution- COMBINE THE TWO CHARACTERS!!! The two Batman vs. Bane fights are flat and boring as hell. Bane is a cardboard, unexplored (until a late-third act flashback... of all ridiculous cliché plot devices) character that reaches for sympathy in one of the most embarrassing, wanna-be-tender, totally out-of-place, extremely laughable scenes I've ever seen in my life- HE FRIGGIN' CRIES?!!?!? Every single, yes EVERY SINGLE cop in Gotham marches down into the sewers on a tip that Bane's raising a secret army, only to have all the entrances blown up so they can be trapped down there... for like three months. Reread that last sentence and tell me what part of it makes sense.Bane holds Gotham hostage with a 4 megaton nuclear device, after blowing up all but one bridge leading into and out of the city, for three months and the U.S. government does nothing. Seriously, nothing. It's said they negotiated a truce and had FEMA send in supplies for survival. Read that last paragraph and tell me what part of it makes sense.The "real" villain reveals him/her self in an absurd Act 3 "twist" that's followed by a narrated flashback (the same one that leads to Bane CRYING), and throughout the entire monologue Batman sits there doing nothing after a knife has been thrust/held into his side.After the 2nd lame Bats/Bane fight, the bulk of the late Act 3rd "action sequence" consists of little more than Batman flying around in that weird-looking clunky flying thing that supposed to be the Bat Plane- half of which is of him outmaneuvering missiles that the bulky "plane" couldn't have possibly eluded.I really, really, really, really, really, really wanted to not just like this, but LOVE it, but as it progressed the enthusiasm cloud gradually cleared to the point of my being utterly flabberghasted in disappointment- mostly because I can't believe the director of The Dark Knight and the masterpiece that is Inception was responsible for this movie. It's lazy and uninspired to the point of being offensive to everyone who's ever been not just a Batman fan, but a fan of non- intelligence-insulting movies.
__label__1 I don't get what all the 10's are about. I don't see how this movie is a 10, or rather even an 8. There are so many plot holes, the characters are so one dimensional, action sequences OK at best.Where do I even begin. Banes voice. I admit, I didn't get what he was saying more than half the time, and even then I had to strain really hard. It was just awful. There were jokes about not understanding Bales growling, but this, this is something else. The movie would have been better without him talking.Catwoman! Suddenly she feels remorse and becomes goody goody at the end, Oh the lord, this was about as predictable as rain in Seattle(very, if you're unsure).Talia, what a big face-palm. Might as well have made a movie when the Batman woke up from a dream at that point. Can the plot get ANY more clichéd? Thanks for popping up the MAIN criminal at the end of the movie, who apparently had the hots for Batman.Batman, his screen time is mostly groaning and screaming and getting beaten around in boxing by Bane. He becomes a superior fighter by jumping across the ledge? I think that's not how the body works. There isn't any Batman stuff at all. Just punching and kicking. Muhammad Ali would have been a better hero to fit that role (Yay, incoming dislikes from people who don't know who that is). Also, big copter no one can find, yea right.Sheep followers wanting to get blown up. Ya, because getting evaporated by a nuclear bomb is so awesome that every "mercenary" wants to do it. Oh, but they didn't know that they'd be blown up.All policemen going underground like a herd of cows because they want to scout out the underground operations and therefore getting caught. Sigh.Big fight scenes. Police officers don't walk in formation with guns against a bunch of mercenaries on higher ground and they all don't start shooting at point blank range. No. That's not how police work. Or any modern force with guns. That ONLY works in Lord of the Rings, because they had SWORDS! Who wrote this script?The other batman movies were good. The first one was great. The second was good too. This one is ridiculous. I don't know how people can be so blind to so many obvious flaws. Even with that, the best moments in this film are...unimpressive. Did I go into the theater with high hopes. Not at all. I expected average, I was disappointed to not find even that.Will be ever get another Prestige from these guys? I hope so.
__label__1 I have no Idea what to even start with about what was wrong with this movie. Apart from the obvious Richard Nixon voice Batman has had in every movie of this trilogy, now we also have a villain we can barely understand .They sit there and expect us to believe that with all the time Bruce Wayne spent training and all the time he spent with Ra's Al Ghul he doesn't even know who his daughter is who is very high up in the League?Then they use the classic bomb going to blow up the city. The bomb that was built to be a fusion reactor. So why does it have a clear LED display of the time on it? And why after flying it in reality about 2 miles off the coast no one is hurt. There is no radiation. No title wave from the ocean. Just a cloud.Then lets look at the spare Batmobiles that the enemies have. I find it really hard to believe that I could blow up a batmobile with only one missile yet his is pretty much indestructible.Then when Bruce escapes prison he magically shows up in a town with only one bridge that is guarded by the military. There were so many aspects of the movie where things just happened. And we have no choice but to accept them.The biggest problem of all though, Robin. Why the people in the movie I was in cheered when she said his name was Robin I'll never know. Let's see what the main parts they got wrong were. Obviously the name. His parents dying's back-story was nowhere near right. Robin was a trapeze artist not a detective. I don't know why people like this movie. Maybe because they are supposed to who knows. But if you are a true fan out there then you will most likely hate this film for the crap it is.This movie didn't feel like a Batman movie to me. There was no gadgets, no detective work, no anything. Only thing that this movie taught me is that now I know for a fact. DC cannot do special effects and in the movie industry will always fall short to fans.
__label__1 I'm not one for writing reviews, but the positive response this movie is getting makes me uneasy. I'm really worried about the general population. The acting is just shocking. Michael Cain delivers a good performance, but because everyone else is so terribly 2 dimensional, his character seems almost comically overacted. The story is cliché, poorly written and the time-jumps are just bad. Why is Bane pushed aside in the last 15 minutes of the movie and an intelligent, interesting character turned into some girls thug (some girl we know, or care, nothing about). It's bad, I didn't know Nolan was capable of anything this poor. The movie would have been far better if Bane was a real person trying to incite a real revolution. And I find the glorification of the rich in this film interesting at a time when their is global social unrest towards them in real life. Is this propaganda or what?Why don't the bad guys use their guns? Don't they know that just pointing them at batman doesn't do anything? And walking closer and closer to him until the gun is almost touching him also doesn't help? And then using their gun as bat instead of as a gun is also stupid? And the background combat is also lame. I saw way too many punches that actually didn't touch the face of their victim. It's just poor and unacceptable. Why the hell do all the cops just walk towards the enemy in a big mass? Only the first line can fire? One grenade in the middle of them will destroy them? What kind of city sends all of their cops down a hole? Even if they somehow decided doing this was a good idea, they wouldn't send 10 thousand cops leaving the city unprotected. How about the army? When Batman tells robin (LOL) to get people off the Island, why does he go and grab 10 kids? Out of a city of millions? Where the hell is the cities population? Why don't we see anyone except Bane and a few of this thugs? How does Batman keep appearing exactly where he needs to be at exactly the right time without explanation? Who the hell is cat-women and why do we care? Why does the bad chick (who's Banes boss apparently) keep yabbering with her finger on the detonator, instead of just pressing the damn thing? It's not 1990, those things just aren't acceptable. Oh god the prison scene, It's been a long time since I've wanted to vomit and kill myself at the same time, but this did it. Cliché to the maximum. And when Garry drops the bomb diffuser just out of fingers grasp, on the moving truck. Man, come on Nolan, were you even a part of this film or did you just pay others to do it for you and pick up the pay-check? Did anyone who's raving about how good this film is even watch it? Makes me depressed. I could go on and on but I can't be bothered and nobody is going to read it. This should be a 6 on IMDb, and that's generous. People are as stupid as the movie.
__label__1 After seeing and liking the first and the second part of this trilogy, the third came off as a disappointment. There are only a few things that actually work in this movie - Hathaway an Levitt gave very nice performances, and were convincing despite of the ludicrously cliché lines they were given. Before seeing the movie, I presumed that (based on the reviews I had read) they had only minor roles, but the two of them guide the plot. Also some action sequences were well executed. But only a minority of them. The majority was illogical and confusing. In comparison with the second movie which I found to be, in its core ( even with the occasional shabby lines), an intelligent and elegant movie, this one lacks action. Of course that a movie shouldn't be judged by the amount of action, but in lack of it there must be a good storyline. This movie has none. Its plot is full of gaps, frustratingly illogical. One of the things that induced from me a great snore was the jail and childwhoescaped subplot. The idea of the jail is absurd. Whose prison is it, why are there no guards? Oh, I know it's inescapable... but please. Its location is outside of some ancient city walls, but very near it, and a modern complex is build only yards away (you can see it on the edge of the screen when Bruce escapes – but I will get to that). Bane (the Big Bad of the movie) escorted Bruce to the Asian jail himself, made all that way just to tell Bruce that he will torture his soul, and went back to Gotham, in the US, in the matter of hours. Why making that journey? It's impractical as hell. Furthermore, the man in prison, who are paid by Bane to keep Bruce alive (the man actually uttered the line – I'm paid more to keep you alive, when Bruce asked for death), are helping him fix his dislocated spine (no, it's not broken) and escape. Why? After a few tries, Bruce manages to climb the well and emerges on the surface. He throws some big, fat rope back in the pit. Where did that rope come from? Was it left outside just in case someone climbed to freedom so he can free all the other prisoners? Bruce himself had no rope – that was the whole point. Is the prisoners safety rope actually tied at the surface? If so, why no one climbed the rope itself? Hell, my brother with whom I watched the movie actually thought that he threw down the safety rope to make sure nobody else would escape. Then Bruce, with no money, no passport and no knowledge of the native language returns in the terrorist occupied and military guarded Gotham. He also, at the time, has no Batmobile, Batcopter or any other Bat-based vehicle. How did he get into the city? Fortunately, once in the city, he found his Bat-copter lying on the roof of a middle-height building, a huge thing covered only with a nett, and visible from air. With all the riots in the city, is it possible that nobody had stumbled upon it? Also, once in the Bat-copter, he encourages the not-long-ago buried police forces (who all have clean clothes and are clean-shaved after being underground for months) to attack the terrorists, but instead of helping them by shooting the enemy from air superiority, he lands the Bat-copter and seeks Bane for a fistfight. Is this not idiotic? The only action scene that was good was the one after the stock-market attack when Batman made a dashing escape. But, not even this scene can be compared with the ones from the second movie which were thrilling, masterfully directed and longer. They were also simpler, there was no atom bomb, there were just guns and explosives, but it worked better, it was more realistic, and darker. Unfortunately, what replaced action is load of parapsychology, the endlessly recycled story of the orphan Bruce, with many annoying flashbacks from previous films. You know the movie is not doing well when there are flashbacks involved. What got on my nerves a lot was also that all lectured Bruce, the man who sacrificed everything to help Gotham and do good. Alfred was particularly pathetic. Bane is truly a poorly done movie villain. The comic book character is said to have some intelligence. This was not present here. The opening scene, the delivery of the plan of doctor Pavel's abduction: Bane has executed a pointlessly expensive and complicated operation where he sacrificed unnecessarily three of his man, chopped up a plane and then used the already seen skyhook (The Dark Knight), when he easily could have attacked the plane on land. The romance between him and Coltirald's character is also redundant. His and Cotillard's background story could have been left unexplained. Even with it, both of them lack motivation. The rest of the movie Bane makes impressive entries. Actually a lot of the movie is about walking on the street, walking through the sewage, etc. And entering rooms. The romance between Bruce and Cotillard character was redundant and not probable (I accept this only if Bruce wanted a quick shag after a long time of drought). The explosion, beside the unnerving need of certain directors to explain in word what we understood in picture (someone actually had said Explosion! after we've have already seen the mushroom), was not realistic (no waves). But, as a whole, the movie is sufferable, just don't expect anything great. The thing I hated the most is that Batman is missing from this film. Bruce was more out of the suit, than in it. Seems to me that Nolan became a little bit too cocky with all the praise for the two previous movies. It's a shame because the movie could have been a lot better if he hadn't.
__label__1 I honestly didn't like this movie very much, there were many things wrong with it that ruined the immersion and messed up something which could have been good.#1 where is batman? for the most part batman is a no show it's not until the final parts of the movie that you even really get to see him fight.#2 Can character development fail? I think this movie proved it can, many movies attribute failure to not accurately linking you to the characters having too limited development of the character, this movie is proof of the opposite in many scenes they spent far too much time focusing on Bruce Wayne. They did this to the extent of completely neglecting many other aspect of the movie, things that should have been delved into that weren't all because too much of the movie was focused on Wayne...#3 The villain makes the movie. Bane was not a good villain, his voice was difficult to understand in a large number of scenes and sometimes the background noise would override him. He just seemed more like a thug then a mastermind, and lacked believability. The so called "real" villain had no real character development only back story which to me is not enough to make her important. Also anyone who was a lover of the batman comics or TV show was probably also disappointed by the complete lack of the venom used to give bane his strength.#4 Music and sound effects make a movie right? There were many times during the movie where I found myself distracted by a completely inappropriate sound byte or music that didn't quite fit the scene.#5 abandonment of sub characters is a good thing? the butler leaving Bruce, and the lack of the use of Morgan Freemans character to me detracted from the movie a lot.#6 batmans voice... something was just wrong with it it sounded like i was listening to one of those cheap voice changers you get at walmart. Was it just me or was it done much better in movie one?In summary, I have to honestly say that it seems as if the focus of this movie was on two actors not on two characters. I couldn't find myself feeling for Bruce, or Robin, they were just... badly overdeveloped characters that instead of making me feel sad for them I just didn't care... Batman had 8 years to prepare and get ready for bane yet he wallows in self pity and lets his whole life go to pot over a girl? I just don't believe it. Batman is the definition of self hurt turned into helping others every time batman sinks deeper into the well of despair he hurts criminals more not less. he over came both of his parents dieing and leaving him alone as a child I just could not see him giving up because a girlfriend dies no matter how over developed they made his character.If you like to think about things in a movie, I think you will find that there are too many "distractions" in this movie to allow for proper immersion and enjoyment.
__label__1 My areas of disappointment : 1) Bane, 2) the threat on the city (nuclear), and 3) the Mr. Nolan's surprising lack of storytelling and bleak cinematic visual (even though he seemingly had the best filming tools to deliver so.). 1) I only wished the Mr. Nolan did not abruptly reduce his newest villain, Bane, to something so insignificant and small. The menacing, intelligent, "brute force" was indeed a towering figure throughout the movie until he presents himself as secondary towards the end of the trilogy.2) And the threat on Gotham City, a nuclear one, was surprisingly unoriginal considering how innovative the poisonous vapor threat was in "Batman Begins" or how chaos forced the protagonists of Gotham to make extremely troubling decisions in "The Dark Knight." 3) Something breathtaking was so suppose to happen in either the plot or in the IMAX grandeur. However, Mr. Nolan surprisingly failed to deliver in both areas. Mr. Nolan did not make us hold our breath like he did in the "Dark Knight" nor did he captivate our focus with his playful plots and mind bending cinematic visuals as he did in "Inception." In other words, I could not help but looking back at his past films while watching the "TDKR." There were a few other things that caught my immediate, negative attention. But who cares. It is really over now. This was how Mr. Nolan decided to end this truly life defining story. With that said, I am simply stunned and truly hurt that the trilogy had to end . . . like this.– davidwoongkim, Seoul
__label__1 The movie was so boring and lengthy that I considered to leave the cinema. The script was predictable at some points and the acting was so poor amongst some of the actors. Anne Hathaway was horrible, she was not convincing at all and her outfit looked like a cheap Halloween costume. Bane, the main villain of this movie was killed in a split second and everything was forgotten about him, that's it. It's like the script writers wanted this movie to end quickly as possible at this point. The actor playing Miranda who appears to be Ra's Al Ghul's daughter Talia should get the award for worst death presentation, it was some of the worst acting I have ever seen, you can tell that she is acting. It's like she is taking a nap for crying out loud. Blake who appears to be Robin gets access to the Batman cave and all the high tech stuff that is in there, but he didn't receive any training at all so he wouldn't know how to use it. Robin is just an ordinary cop in this movie with no combat skills, yet Bruce Wayne gives away the cave to him and settles down with the supposed Catwoman.
__label__1 I'm starting to suspect there's some mass cultural delusion effect at work here, and in a few decades time people will come to realise that it is, in fact, just about as bad as a film can be and is easily the weakest of Nolan's Batman trilogy. Let's explore why.1. Why is Marion Cotillard in this film? This is the wrong role for her. Her death sequence was a masterclass in bad acting. And if you didn't see the obvious twist that she was Talia after a whole movie of hanging around conspicuously it's time for a sight test.2. That blonde Selina was hanging around with really heavily implied Catwoman was a lesbian, or bisexual if you count her shoehorned-in fleeting kisses with Bruce. Why?3. The movie is filled with pointless characters. "Here's a new major or minor character, we'll stop the plot dead in it's tracks while they give dull exposition about their past and their motivations". This happened at least half a dozen times. In the case of Bane it would have been justified... if they had told his backstory all at once, not tediously dragged it out.4. Why did a nuclear reactor core contain a red countdown clock? Did Lucius Fox know that it would be hijacked, and made life easier for the hijackers by letting them know when it would explode? More irritating is how characters in the film keep mentioning there's a bomb and saying how many days/hours remain, like they have forgotten.5. There is no tangible sense of time, of scale, or of anything at stake. I was waiting for the movie to establish a sense of what really mattered. Would it create a real feeling of being in Gotham? It never did: it became more convoluted and confusing instead. I never got the feeling there were millions of lives at stake or that there was anything worth caring about.6. The movie takes itself too seriously. It was a gloomy dirge of self-pity and heavy-handed, lazy commentary about current affairs, with that stupid pounding music score pulsing along underneath ratcheting up the tension because the writing couldn't.7. Robin was written in so he could take on the mantle of Gotham's leading superhero at the end. The other things he did were things Jim Gordon could have done if the movie hadn't put him in a hospital bed. Getting rid of Robin would have also dispensed with the pointless subplot where he is trying to save a busload of orphans. I rolled my eyes at that one.8. In other versions of Batman, Bane is huge because he's on a supersteroid called Venom. In Rises it is never really explained, despite the fact he was a tiny child when he escaped the well prison. His death sequence was also terrible; the film spends so much time building him up as some kind of badass Batman can't beat, then he dies with relative ease.9. The sound mixing was terrible. Even characters that didn't have a stupid mask with batteries taped on the front (Bane) were, at times, very hard to hear. Considering how many millions were spent it really should have had reference quality surround sound audio.10. Chris Nolan is not good at directing this type of picture. In all of the Nolan Batman films (including Batman Begins, which I like despite this problem) he doesn't seem to know how to direct scenes, whether they are action, quiet drama or a mix of both. Camera placement is all wrong. The "Bane and Batman slug it out on a rusty walkway" scene feels claustrophobic despite the fact it's supposed to be some kind of huge fighting pit. It might as well be taking place inside a vacuum.11. Jim Gordon in his infinite wisdom stops what he thinks is the bomb truck with... a regular passenger coach, which would have broken apart under the weight.12. Gary Oldman cannot hold his American accent for even one scene.13. Batman is a plot device, not a character. It used to be something special when the cape and cowl were on. But the way Nolan has shot Batman here never made me feel he was the last bastion of justice in a corrupt city, powerful enough to keep criminals at bay with both his mind and his fists. He's one-dimensional and boring.14. Despite the fact Alfred mentions how underprepared Bruce his, despite the fact Bruce's doctor tells him he has no knees, all he does is strap a bionic movement device to one of his legs and is suddenly sprightly enough to be Batman again.15. Plenty of other problems the internet already covered.CONCLUSIONThere's no weight or levity to The Dark Knight Rises because characters and objects jump to where the poorly-constructed plot requires them to be, as if they were beamed there by a Star Trek transporter. The balance of the real and the exaggerated was just right in Batman Begins but in this one it bounces from set piece to boring drama scene and back again with no sense of cohesion, logic or grace. It's a complete mess.On the other hand, maybe it is a great movie and I just can't see it. Or maybe when the cultural zeitgeist changes direction everyone not so close to it and not hyped up to breaking point will see it's not all that. Time will tell.SUMMARY1. It's everything that was bad about The Dark Knight ramped right up.2. It's everything that was good about Batman Begins removed or neutered.3. It wastes good actors and a pretty large budget.4. It is joyless and illogical.5. It is one of the worst films I have ever seen.But it's not all bad: at least it wasn't available in 3D!
__label__1 1. This movie is almost 3 hours long. Out of this 3 hours Batman was sick and crippled 2 hours. He was in his batman suit and did his batman stuff 15 minutes.2. I could not understand 80% of what Bane was saying.3. There are A LOT of long, boring, brainwashing , cliché dialogs.4. Gotham painfully reminded me of LA and NY. I mean really painfully.5. Throughout the movie i had a feeling that i was watching some stupid piece of propaganda how wonderful all super rich people are and how dumb are the rest of us. That orphanage in Bruce's house almost made me puke.Catwoman was rather enjoyable character.This movie, or should i rather say this propaganda piece would appeal to a people with very low IQ and some really die hard Batman fans.
__label__1 How anyone can say this was a good movie is beyond me. This quite possibly is the stupidest movie I've seen in a long long long time. And it takes a lot for me to be that negative. You actually have to try to right something so non-sensical and idiotic. I left thinking that this wasn't just the end of the Spiderman franchise but it was done via cinematic suicide. It had to be. Nothing in this movie made any sense. For instance, 1) Sandman - OK so a guy escapes from jail, goes home to see his daughter and isn't caught but then later on he's running through some marshland (in NYC no less) being chased by cops and falls into a giant wide open hole in the ground which is actually a science experiment and the scientist think he's a bird so they don't stop the experiment and the experiment makes no logical sense but turns him into the sandman and the cops that were chasing him run up on this hole as the experiment is going on (again in the middle of the NYC marshland) and are like whoa a big hole wonder if this convict fell in or something, yeah he probably did let's turn around and walk away and let this giant science experiment hole go unaddressed. WHAT!!!!! This really happened in the movie I kid you not. Unbelievable.2)Harry tries to kill Peter because of his dad but low and behold after a wild chase through the city Peter knocks him out and of course Harry gets amnesia so he conveniently forgets for the next act of the movie that he really wants to kill Peter 3) Kirsten Dunst sings 3 songs in the movie. What is this a Broadway play? 4) Yup. It is a Broadway play. Or a bad version of Saturday Night fever as Peter does a totally ridiculous piano playing/dance number himself. Basically a retarded version of John Travolta in every move he did in the 70s.5) OK. This was the lamest part. Harry wants to kill Peter because Peter killed his dad. But right before the final battle Harry's butler comes on screen and tells Harry that Peter didn't kill Harry's dad because he saw the wound and the wound was from his own glider so Harry's dad killed himself and Peter isn't at fault. Uh. Huh? And who are you anyway? 6) Final battle. Why exactly does Sandman want to kill Spiderman??? Wait, he doesn't. He actually says he's not a bad guy and didn't want to hurt anyone? So why did he? No reason. Only because it made for a cool 4 way battle at the end. Jeez how about we TRY to come up with some motivation for him? Sandman could have been the coolest character but he's basically a puppet.7) Venom. Yah. OK.There were so many other dumb plot points and ridiculous assumptions and what not that we spent the whole movie laughing.
__label__1 There's no one word that can some up this movie. I won't use 'eh' because that's a bit too vague, and I think it's a bit better than that. But things like 'good' or 'amazing' are too crazy to use. Welcome to my review.Age of Ultron opens to a fine start -in fact, an amazing start- with a fresh, intense, action-packed sequence. The Avengers are introduced for the sequel, and so are two new characters: Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver. These ended up being my favourite (Yes, I'm spelling it right. I'm not American, y'know) characters in this movie. Unfortunately, they get tossed a side a bit. Considering they're new characters, and considering one is in an upcoming movie and the other dies, they should have gotten more development. I adored Scarlet Witch and her powers, at least in the parts that she's ACTUALLY IN.After the opening, everything goes downhill, at least SLIGHTLY. Ultron's introduction is quite terrible. Can anyone explain to me how this invisible force can suddenly SPEAK inside a whole load of technological material? I don't know... It just felt pretty dumb to me. If this was how it was in the comics, then I suppose I can't really complain much. But I guess I could say that it doesn't translate to screen very well. After that, the movie becomes kind of dull. I kept twitching in my seat various different times. If I can say one thing, it's that the action sequences were fantastic, and they're the only things that hold this movie up. Ultron was nothing like he was in the teaser trailer that got me hyped, nor was the movie. I wanted a dark, gritty, intense, heart-breaking, half-horror movie! The advertising for this movie is false, almost to the point where I could sue. Remember Scarlet's gut-wrenching scream, or maybe Ultron saying "There's no strings on me" in the teaser trailer? Well guess what? Nowhere to be found. But there's one last thing that makes me feel at least a bit satisfied with the movie, and that was the last act. When Ultron's plans were finally revealed, everything turned amazing. The CGI effects were absolutely incredible, and there are shots in the trailers that would reveal his plan if they were extended by a few seconds, so keep an eye out...By the end of this review, I can finally figure out one word to sum this up. 'Overrated.'You can mark this review as unhelpful, but I don't care. It's my opinion. This movie is definitely NOT a must see, but I guess it is for any fans of the comics.Just be prepared for a completely different film to the film marketed in the trailers.. Thank you for reading, and I know that at least somebody will agree with me.EDIT:So I was sippy sipping on my mug of tea and I almost spat it out all over my screen. This movie is rated 7.9. I have now changed my 6/10 rating to 1/10 simply to try and lower the rating to what it deserves. Before you Marvel nerds attack me, I am doing this because this movie is average at most. You are crazy if you rate it higher than 6.Goodbye.
__label__1 Well, the superhero movies have sucked their last dollar out of me. I don't like watching movies just to see things blown up. The writers and director are so much into showing off their destructive action sequences that they didn't pause to consider whether soneone would actually give an F. Superthin plot. The occasional quip grom Ultron or an Avenger gets old quick with nothing else to support it. We're clearly dealing with high school humor here. I really like the scene where the earth is caving in, thousands of people obviously meeting gruesome deaths, and yet a few Avengers take the time to save one woman in a falling vehicle...NOT.
__label__1 This movie was a failure on many levels. There was a serious lack of story, the humor was very forced in an overabundance of one-liners, bad CGI in some places, and a very under-developed Villain. The movie focused a lot on the characters in the movie and developing them, but not even that much. We get a few tidbits about each, except Thor, Stark/Ironman, and Hulk/Banner. Thor was hardly in the movie, only shown on screen for a few minutes after leaving the team to basically setup the next movie and where the story is going (Infinity War), but is glossed over so quickly most people won't catch it, especially those who have no idea about story arcs in the comics. Ultron's reveal was absolutely perfect, it set him up as an intimidating and powerful villain, then when he gets his own mechanical body, he turns into a comedy act and does not look real because the CGI metal looks terrible, along with the stupid moving mouth when he speaks.Every character in the movie was trying to be a comedian in the movie. The only moment that felt serious or dire was the reveal of Ultron (and then turned into a joke later). The ending of course has a big battle with all the Ultron bots, but seriously, why do they even have Thor in the close quarters fighting with them? His lightning could have fried most of them, then they have Thor not fight Ultron back just so Vision (Which they never called him by his name) could be seen holding Thor's hammer again and make a stupid remark about the balance of the hammer.Stark/Ironman is basically having amnesia forgetting the events of Ironman 3. And then turns into a "mad scientist" with Banner to create Ultron, totally against his way of thinking after the events of Ironman 3. Ironman also does everything he knows the team will get mad at him for doing, but does it anyway without consulting them.Black Widow is basically the Avengers "Mattress" in that she is now flirting with a 4th Avenger (1st was Ironman in Ironman 2, 2nd was Hawkeye in The Avengers, 3rd was Captain America in The Winter Soldier) and now the 4th is Bruce Banner/Hulk. She is a better character than that, but all she gets is flirting with everyone.We are introduced to 2 other characters dubbed "The Twins" though they never give them names. Probably because of Fox owns the rights to X-Men, but their names are Scarlet Witch and Quicksilver. Quicksilver dies, and of course, says a one-liner, and yet we feel nothing for his death as we never knew him......he is a 1- dimensional character. At least in X-Men Day of Future Past we get to know Quicksilver in there, and his special effects were a hell of a lot better.This film was a catastrophe, and should not be praised in anyway.
__label__1 This segment of HP will disappoint all who read the novel. The Burrow burns down during x-mas break due to Bellatrix and Fenrir (who is never described as a werewolf) perhaps for the lack of action at the end of the movie...the Dursleys are completely cut from the movie, meaning when Dumbledore picks Harry up for the summer it's at the train station for some apparent reason...The Ginny/Dean/Harry dichotomy is skewed, there was no break up between Ginny and Dean and Harry is clearly in love with her from the start of the movie which eliminates his confusion on his feelings during the school year...Hermoine prematurely spills the beans on her feelings for Ron which was only speculation in the novels...Lavender Brown becomes a obsessive and crazed girlfriend rather than simply over-affectionate (a reminiscent Unis from She's the Man)...the battle scene is missing from the end giving Dumbledore's death an anticlimactic feel making it all the more unemotional and disappointing...Harry hides under the floor simply holding his wand looking like a coward while Dumbledore dies, Snape sees him hiding rather than Harry being frozen under his cloak compliments of Dumbledore ...There is no funeral or break up with Ginny at the end of it (there is no relationship between the two either simply a kiss)...Hagrid is basically deleted from the movie as is Neville...Pensive trips are deleted and the Horocruxes are never explained, not even slightly...Luna finds Harry on the Hogwarts Express rather than Tonks...The Slug Club simply makes a cameo rather than a proper introduction and explanation...the Inferi look more like skeletons compared to the white bodies described in the book...I'm sure more discrepancies are present, however I can only remember so many of them.It is absolutely a horrible interpretation of the book and I hope that they look at all of the mistakes and gaps left for the next movie and fill them in with more than humor (they are supposed to be in the middle of an all out war aren't they?) I mean I didn't even feel emotional when Dumbledore was killed, I was too busy trying to figure out why Harry was acting like a stunned coward under the floor boards and not doing something, isn't that his thing...doing seemingly impossible rescue missions?!?! I am utterly disappointed in this installment of HP!!
__label__1 SPOILERS AHEADThe beginning of the Half Blood Prince starts with the Death Eaters attacking London and destroying everything in sight. After a great opening, Harry, Ron, and Hermoine return for their sixth year at Hogwarts and then, nothing.... We get two slow hours of Ron's potion making, and teenage angst, with little mention of Tom Riddle's memories, or Harry and Dumbledore's hunt for his horcruxes. The Weasley's house is burned, and then instead of the DD funeral, they change the ending. Harry just stars under the floor, while Snape kills Dumbledore. Harry cries, and the students all wave their wands at the sky to erase the dark marks. Then Harry, Ron and Hermoine leave Hogwarts. Too many things cut out, too little action, too much fluff, and, at the end, I didn't care whether or not there was a DD funeral. Definitely the weakest film yet, too many things taken out, and too many silly things put back in. Too little Tom Riddle also. The movie was just plain AWFUL!If David Yates screws up Deathly Hollows half as badly as he screwed up Order of the Phoenix, and Half Blood Prince, then he will be the one to blame for taking the Potter series seriously downhill. It was the first time I have seen an audience actually fall asleep during a Harry Potter movie and after the ending, only two people clapped. There were a lot of very disappointed people after the movie ended. I have never heard the statement "I want my money back" from a Harry Potter movie until now. Consider me highly disappointed in that this is by far the weakest film of the series, and that's saying something after the extremely dull Order of the Phoenix. David Yates is bad luck for the Potter films.
__label__1 I consider myself a Harry Potter fan. Not of the movies, but from the books which they came from. There's a reason why each of J.K. Rowling's 7 books have brought much fan base all over the world, it's because of the magic of the Harry Potter books.In the last several years, I feel more and more magic from the books have been cut from the movies. I blame this on Warner Brothers who obviously views the Potter property as a ticket to high profit rather than an experience that filmgoers and book lovers can share together.I loved the essence of the first two films, but when Alfonso Cuaron took over as the director of Prisoner of Azkaban, it seems more and more material had been cut from the books on which they are based. Prisoner of Azkaban was the first and some key sequences were eliminated. The change wasn't too bad -- back then. Then Goblet of Fire came out a year later, and even more material was cut. Then Order of the Phoenix came out two years ago, and it seems half of the book was cut to the point where the film was quite dull and pointless.But, Half Blood Prince is the worst of them all. Many fans of the Harry Potter film series keep on stating that the films are an entirely different form of entertainment than the books, and that all the details cannot be included. That's nonsense. The first two Harry Potter movies were able to capture the essence of the books perfectly. The Narnia films were able to capture the essence of their books perfectly as well, there is no reason why the rest of the Harry Potter books cannot do the same.What we have with Half Blood Prince is a cliff note's version of the film with much of the material that made the book so special completely cut out. Events such as Harry and Dumbledore's quest for Voldemort's Horcruxes are barely touched on, while the majority of the film focuses on the sillier parts of the novel such as the growing hormones between the sixth year Hogwarts students. It seems that the producers of Harry Potter were aware of the growing popularity of the Twilight phenomenon and wanted to make their own teenage romantic love story as part of the series. That doesn't feel right in a Harry Potter film in anyway.I feel that David Yates directed the two worst Harry Potter films so far, and that he will undoubtedly destroy the once great Harry Potter film series. The fact that the final book will be split into two separate films makes me question his abilities as a director of the final film of one of the best fantasy book series of all time.
__label__1 Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince was horrible. Don't get me wrong: The acting was great, the score was amazing, the scenery beautiful... The only thing wrong? The plot. They absolutely BUTCHERED the book--and while I (and millions of others) agree that YES, they cannot fit everything from the book into the movie, I (also like many others) do say that there were some HUGE plot points that they skipped and they took trivial, two-sentence moments from the book and made THOSE into the main parts of the movie. Oh, and let's not forget how much they added! But I'll just list it out for you:1. Does anyone remember the Burrow burning down in the book? No? Oh, that's right--it doesn't. But in the movie it does! Don't ask why--no one knows. 2. They never really mentioned that Fenrir Greyback was a werewolf. He just looked like a yellow-eyed, exceptionally hairy man. 3. They never/barely mentioned or showed Bill and Fleur--and they didn't mention the wedding. So I don't know they're going to start the 7th movie--with a random wedding? Non-book readers, get ready for some surprises! 4. Where was Hagrid? And Neville? They both only had, like, 2 scenes each and they resorted Neville back to the fumbling loser he was before, when he SHOULD have been becoming more of a take-charge kind of guy, like he was in the Hallows. 5. Where was ANYONE, for that matter? All of those characters we know and love (and sometimes love to hate) weren't there! Or if they were, they had really minor scenes! McGonagall and Parvati and Flitwick and LUNA and people like them. 6. Where were all the memories? The Horcrux discussions? The evening lessons? Everyone heard Dumbledore clearly say (of the Horcruxes), "They could be anything." Riiight--wasn't Dumbledore supposed to have an inkling of what they might be? What is Harry supposed to do now, guess all of them?7. And what was up with Dumbledore JUST finding out that Voldemort was using Horcruxes? That is wrong/weird for two reasons: A) Dumbledore is supposed to have all the answers, so that was weird and B) He had already acquired the ring and destroyed it--if he didn't know Voldemort was using Horcruxes, why? Did he just feel like smashing it?8. There was no battle at the end. The Death Eaters kind of just waltzed in, trashed some things and then killed Dumbledore (while Harry cowered in fear, by the way, which is so wrong). Then they left, after smashing some windows. And all this happened while everyone was asleep, I might add.9. Oh, and then, Hagrid took Dumbledore's body outside and somehow, everyone was randomly outside, staring at his body and not even crying or looking sad...? 10. There was no funeral. Okay... so what did they do to Dumbledore's body? Threw it in a sack, I guess. 11. And the Flight of the Prince was so lame. It wasn't dramatic at all, Harry's and Snape's expressions were so wooden I thought they were trees, and it was all over in about three seconds. 12. Harry and Ginny's get-together and break-up... neither was there. One day Ginny was with Dean, the next she was with Harry. And then at the end... they were still together. Okay, then. And they never showed Harry awkwardly realizing he liked Ginny. I mean, why show THAT when you could show Ron and Lavender thrashing about all the time, right...?13. And then Hermione blurted out her love for Ron. Great and all--but what are they going to do for the Hallows now?14. And all the random, awkward, unexplained moments. Like: Ginny tying Harry's shoelaces, or Hermione blurting out--almost right after Dumbledore died--"Oh, Harry, by the way: Ron is okay with you dating Ginny." Um... what? So, basically, the movie was more like a 99 percent Ron-and-Lavender- and-Hermione love triangle than a Harry-and-Ginny or a Harry-and- Dumbledore-and-memories sort of thing. Wonderful! And yes, I am a die- hard fan (have read each book about 200 times--not kidding) but I am NOT biased. Order of the Phoenix pretty much... sucked, but I let it go, and enjoyed it, 'cause at least it had SOME of the main parts! Like the fight at the end, right? But this? Let's just put it like this: if I had a magic wand, I wouldn't use it to do magic--I'd use it to stab myself in the eyes. Cheerio, Ginny (and that's really my name)
__label__1 This movie was an extreme let down. One has to have read the book in order to pull together the huge holes in this movie. The climax... there was none. Why... all of a sudden .. where those people in Hogwarts? There was no building up to it...The line delivered by Snape was so... poorly done. I mean COME ON! The only positive of this movie was Slughorn. The man who played him brought an interesting and fun life to this character. This was by far the most disappointing HP movie.I'm glad I read the books, especially this one, to understand EVERYTHING they left out. IT was choppy and poorly done. For shame. Campy humor does not become harry potter.
__label__1 i thought i went to see harry potter and the half blood prince but the whole time i was wondering what book it was based off of be there weren't many similarities. more like the writers got lazy and only read the cliff notes. how did jk rowling allow this crap. i mean ginny did not hide the book...that will mess up movie seven. and why is there not an epic fight scene. that is the biggest part of the book. and where is harry's invisibility cloak? i don't expect the movie to include everything in the book, but i do expect it not to add things that aren't needed (the scene at the burrow) and leave out key points. or change how scenes were. why couldn't they show harry and ginny kissing in the common room? and at the first of the movie ginny was dating someone else...it never tells that they break up then she is kissing harry. umm...wtf.
__label__1 There's less of magic and tricks in the sixth instalment of the Harry Potter series, fans need be disappointed -- it offers a heavy dose of drama, romance and humour rather than the plot. Strangely the teenagers of Hogwarts are shown spending more time sorting out their adolescent problems, flirting and pouting. While Harry finds himself attracted to Ginnie Weasley (Bonnie Wright), Ron, much to the dismay of Hermione (Emma Watson), is besotted with Lavender Brown (Jessie Cave). The mood of the film is mostly dark and director David Yates creates an atmosphere of depression and melancholy by showing dense clouds and rain throughout the narrative, making it gloomy compared to the previous versions. In terms of content, nothing much is revealed, though suspense is built up when Draco Malfoy (Tom Felton) is often shown sneaking around forbidden corridors and secret chambers of the Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Also, the development of the plot in the film version does not justify the title "Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince". The story shows that Harry stumbles upon a book on potions in the laboratory of Horace Slughorn (Jim Broadbent), a new bumbling professor of potions. The book belongs to the Half-Blood Prince and it helps him in experimenting and successfully making a potion. But Ginnie thinks he has had enough of the book and hides it.This time the story also bids adieu to one of the most important and adorable characters of the series, leaving Harry all alone to fight off the evil Voldemort. Also, professor Severus Snape (Alan Rickman) turns villain.The film has no scary moments...like when Harry and his friends are attacked in a field by Death Eaters and when Professor Albus Dumbledore (Michael Gambon) takes Harry to a seaside cave.Although nothing much is revealed or explained compared to earlier films, the plot has unsuccessfully set up for a perfect stage for the last and final installment of the wizard franchise. It is not must watch for die-hard Harry Potter fans as it disappoints totally.P.S.-BORING, AWFUL, TERRIBLE HARRY POTTER MOVIE. WORST MOVIE OF THE MOVIE SERIES. THE LAST IHE MOVIE SHOULD BE DIRECTED BY Mike Newell (Who Directed Goblet of Fires of the series) AND NOT David Yates (Who Directed this Movie)
__label__1 I know a movie is hardly as good as the book, but come on... HP 4 was a great movie, and so were the others. This lacks of plot (well, the book's, for it has Ron's romantic life as one) and of details: Dumbledore's chat about horcruxes and possible ones. Ginny and Harry's REAL kiss. Fleur and the wedding, very important in the next. the OTHER minister. Fenrir Grayback Tonk's patronus and explanation the funeralIt isn't that I expected a faithful adaptation, but those are important details.I "loved" the way you can kill the Headmaster and then walk through the corridors, even destroying the Great Hall without no one waking up nor listening, and also do an fatal curse like "Sectumsempra" and not getting even detention...Hardly a decent movie, it could have been better, MUCH better. It's a shame that nowadays most directors only care to make money...
__label__1 The clue was in the title all along and I just failed to see it.It's like the studio and creative minds behind this disaster were so stoked with the idea of having Superman and Batman fight each other, they couldn't have a coherent thought after to come up with any form of a story. So they let Zack Snyder make a movie to satisfy the 10 year old in him. Major spoilers ahead!I thought there were 3 very strong, compelling ideas from the trailers, but the movie failed to delivery on them1. Batman's aggression towards Superman. 3/4th of this movie is dedicated to this. In fact Batman wants to KILL Superman. And finally, when the moment arrives, Batman stops because his mother's first name is the same as Superman's mother's. And so they become the best of friends. Just like that.2. People of earth's distrust of Superman, due to the events from the first movie. This too runs through most of the movie, with Superman trying to earn some brownie points by saving a few people. The fact that there is a public hearing against him, indicates that people are not buying it. But in the end, after his supposed death, why does he a get a military/hero style funeral? Why is the country mourning? Did I miss something? Especially since there is confusion on what happened during the hearing.3. The public hearing: This should have been a really powerful scene. If Superman were to concede, then he'd be answerable to the people and he would not get to be the hero we know he is. The same, if he did not concede. I was giddy with anticipation when this scene started and was immensely disappointed when the Senator starts mumbling. Zack Snyder took the path of least resistance.- - - - -I guess after the writer's gave up on the main ideas, they didn't care about smaller plot pointsSuperman has no remorse for the destruction he caused in the first movie. In the big fight he smashes Batman through a building causing the building to collapse. Ditto for Doomsday, smashes him in to a power plant of some sort. He is not even thinking about anyone's safety.Just like in the first movie, there is an apocalypse level destruction. Superman himself contributes to some of it. Thousands are probably killed, but superman only saves Lois LaneSuperman threatens Batman that he can easily kill Batman, twice. Sounds like a bully to meBatman STEALING from Lex Luthor so HE gets to exact revenge on SupermanBatman uses guns, not to intimidate, but actually kill. He even dreams of gun battles.The govt. has Zod's body and the ship for 2 years. Luthor comes up with the idea that since the ship has a bio-metric security, he can use Zod's body to gain access. It did not cross anyone else's mindOne alien craft/tech is lying in the Indian Ocean for 2 years. No nation/military has claimed it. Local fishermen are freely swimming to it and breaking away piecesThe all powerful Kryptonian key has no security what so ever. Anyone can use it. Even Lex Luthor. It only unlocks EVERYTHING, why should it be secure?Kryptonians have banned the technology to create Doomsday. It's so dangerous, they decide not to remove it from the system but keep it, with so minimum security that it can be enabled with a simple voice command by a non-Kryptonian.There is no compelling reason behind Lex Luthor's hatred towards Superman. How does he stand to gain or lose?There is no villain, purpose, motive or problem to solve in the story. Doomsday appears so that Zack Snyder can once again have a city-leveling battle.Why is Doomsday angry with Superman? Since he is made from Zod & Luthor's genes, does anger/hatred towards someone pass through genes?When Batman steals the Kryptonite, it would have spoiled whatever Luthor had planned, but Luthor just eggs Superman to fight Batman like they were in cahoots. How does Luthor know what Batman has planned? How does he know about the battle royale. Has he read the comic?Why is Batman not suspicious of the other meta beings? Why does he think they are friendly and will help? And against what? Why does he think he will need their help? How come Luthor is in on this?Why does Luthor have well designed logos for each meta human? Why was wonder woman so concerned with being exposed? According to the photo, she had already revealed herself, in FULL COSTUME. So why the secrecy? And why come out of hiding when she sees lightening coming from the dome? She did not feel the need when world was practically getting destroyed in the first movie.Why does Luthor introduce Bruce Wayne and Clark Kent to each other? BW is a billionaire, but CK? Why would anyone care about him?Superman stops the car chase. Literally allowing the bad guys to escape. He may not like Batman's methods, but he couldn't figure out if Batman's giving a chase, he's after bad guys?!In the midst of deafening destruction Superman can hear Lois Lane. But his mother...his hearing, speed, x-ray vision...he doesn't even give it a shot. And of course Batman finds her in a jiffy because he is...... the list goes on...but IMDb has a word limit...I can't believe such a high profile movie had no thought put behind it. Amateur hour. A total disservice to a 75 year legacy and to the fans. I hope the remaining DC movies are scrapped or they finally pulls their socks up.
__label__1 First, let me just comment on what I liked about the movie. The special effects were fantastic, and very rarely did I feel like I was watching a video game. There, that is the last nice thing I have to say about this film. In fact, I would just like everyone reading this to take note that I can't even put into words how hard it was for me to write this review without swearing. I have innumerable complaints about the film, but four major complaints jump to mind. My first major complaint has to do with the incredible cheesiness of the "plot twist" (if you can call it that since most people probably saw it coming a mile away) where Lois's 5 year-old son turns out to be the super-powered child of Superman. When the crying super-child throws a piano at Lex's henchman to save his mother, I almost got up and left the theater. Singer could have made a much better Superman movie without resorting to cheap gimmicks like a seemingly fragile but latently super-powered illegitimate child. It's been 5 days since I saw the movie and I still want to vomit. My next major complaint has to do with the fact that Superman lifts a continent made out of kryptonite up into outer space. It doesn't take comic book guy from the Simpsons to point out what's wrong with that. I don't know how many comic books Brian Singer has read, but when Superman is exposed to even a small amount of kryptonite he barely has the strength to stay on his feet. Whoever had the idea to have him fly a large island made out of his greatest weakness into space has no business being associated with any Superman-related projects ever again. The concept is as ridiculous as making a Dracula movie where the title character has a stake through his heart and still manages to fly a spaceship made out of garlic into the sun. Why not just have Superman eat kryptonite? He can eat it and then brush his teeth with it, and then go to sleep in kryptonite pajamas. That's not any more absurd then having him hoist a continent of kryptonite into space and then fall powerless through the atmosphere without burning up in re-entry or splattering all over central park when he hits the ground. My third major complaint has to do with the fact that Singer slaps movie-goers across the face with religious symbolism the entire movie. I have to take issue with his characterization of Superman as the only son of a God-like Jor-el sent to Earth to be a savior. Jor-el wasn't all-wise, he was just a scientist. And he didn't send his son to earth to be a savior, he threw him in a rocket and hurriedly fired it into space because his planet was about to explode. I'll buy the Christ allegory if Brian Singer can show me the part in the Bible where God sends Christ to Earth because Heaven was about to explode, and then radioactive pieces of Heaven become Christ's primary weakness. Furthermore, the "crucifixion" scene where Luthor stabs Superman in the side with a kryptonite "spear" just makes me want to slam my face into a brick until I'm too brain-dead to notice the brazenly obvious and inappropriate symbolism that will be tainting the man of steel for the foreseeable future. They might as well rename this movie "Superman Returns: the Passion of the Christ."And speaking of Luthor, my last major complaint has to do with Singer's depiction of Lex Luthor. Lex Luthor is a shrewd, cold-hearted business tycoon who is more apt to run for President (which he does in the comics) than try to destroy the world. The man wants money and power; he wants to be in charge, not wreck everything. Yet the Luthor we see Superman Returns, as well as all the previous Superman movies, is a wacky theatrical dunce who comes up with zany schemes to destroy the world. If Singer had the slightest loyalty to the characters instead of the (quite awful) previous Superman movies, this film might not be such an unbearable travesty. Maybe Singer's next project can be a Batman movie where he focuses on the interpretation of Batman from 1960s TV show. ZAM! WHAP! POW!!To summarize, I don't know what I hate more, the movie itself or the fact that so many people seem to be giving it good reviews. Everyone is entitled to their opinion, but if you don't hate this movie then your opinion is wrong. I sincerely encourage anyone who reads this not to see this movie if you haven't already. Don't see it, don't buy it when it comes out on DVD, don't rent it...basically don't contribute any money towards it in any way. This movie does not deserve to make any money. In fact, I think that for every person that sees this movie, Bryan Singer should be fined 45 billion dollars. If you're a Superman fan and you really want to see this movie, just bend over and have someone kick you in the balls and you'll get the same experience without having to waste 2 hours of your time.
__label__1 This movie was extremely poorly conceived from every angle except technological. I stood and watched everyone waddle out of the theater, their faces drained like their lives flashed before their eyes -- eyes wandering at their neighbor, wondering if it was just them. I mean, how could the movie really be bad. Nobody'll admit it, it's a classic case of The Emperor Wears No Clothes. "Who am I to question a movie containing a guy who stops a jet liner?" But the fact remains, every member of the audience is thinking what I'm writing right now. I actually plagiarized their faces.Obviously Lois is only aroused by power, she won't even have a cup of coffee with the Superman With Glasses who doesn't stop jet liners. It can't be the look in "his" eyes to the depths of his soul or anything like that. In the old Supermans, she had some level of connection with him, he wasn't priority number 1, obviously, but it strengthened her character that she was "torn". I bet Henry Kissinger would have even won this Lois over before Clark Kent.And now it's official, Kryptonite does to Superman what eating at McDonalds does to the avg. person.SUPERMAN "ONE" He loses his earth dad, then finds his real super dad, the story is captivating every step of the way. He's human, he relates to people and he feels love for people, he relates to highschool students, he relates to people who feel different. He relates. The Superman Returns superman seems to relate only to Superpeople and it seems he's just "doing a job" when he's saving people.There's something about Clark that Lois likes, she's really internally in love with him but can't admit it, and when he comes into the picture as Superman, it throws a kink in the on-the-rocks love. Without Superman, she would've fallen in love with Clark (at least that's what the movie points to, whether it was the intention or not). Superman Returns is a love story between a woman and SUPERMAN, Clark is like a pile of horse maneur to Lois. Literally.SUPERMAN TWO I just watched it again. As a kid, I "thought" I enjoyed the action, but now I know it was the STORY that held me then too, watching it over and over again. If I saw Superman Returns as a child, I would've hated it then too, I think.There is so much heart and soul and superpower going around in this movie, it's sick. Superman gives up his powers for love as a world plot is going on and meanwhile, MEANWHILE, Lex Luther's got something fantastic up his sleeve.SUPERMAN THREE Now there's a three-way love story between Superman and Lana and Clark, only humanity wins and Clark's inner nature beats Superman's power, because when his SUPERmoral nature is gone and he's SuperHUMAN (who does human things with his superpowers), she sees it's not the power of Superman that she's in love with, it's not SUPERpowerman, but SUPERMORTALman that she loves -- and who's really SUPER. And when she tells Clark she "prefers" him to Superman, he is elated, he has made a human connection again. He wants to be accepted for who he is, not just for his ability to bend steel. THIS IS THE KIND OF STUFF THAT'S MISSING FROM SUPERMAN RETURNS.Clark super-sneezes to help the kid get a strike - humanity again. Plus, it's an INERESTING use of superpowers. He's not just using straight brute strength.He crushes the coal into a diamond for his woman because she had to sell hers, love is the only thing that drives him to use his powers other than for saving.It seems there's nothing at stake in Superman Returns. Even in Superman Three, we see the damages caused by the nemesis' world domination plot.. we see suffering, we see how it effects Pryor and others and people in the middle of it.. there's no damage, esp. emotional from Lex's plot to sink the US. We see a glob of crystal thrown into space.. Superman had to get very creative in the first three Supermans in order to stop the plot against him, he couldn't just "access" his superpowers. In the first one, he had to stop two missiles going in different directions and then break his universal mandate and erase history to save Lois' life... (this was THIRTY YEARS AGO!!") In the second one, he had to outsmart three guys that he was already more POWERFUL than, but combined with Lex's genius, and the villains' immoral tactics, Superman's overpowering wasn't enough, he had to work one against the other and outsmart them... In Superman III, again, his superpowers weren't enough to win.. He had to outsmart a computer that calculated everything it saw. He couldn't use straight aggression on the computer because it calculated it in advance, so he had to use a benign acid that would only become deadly to the computer after the computer responded to the aggression. And he found that acid earlier when he couldn't simply use his superpowers to BLOW out a fire because it was a chemical fire, so he had to use his superbrains -- he couldn't carry water, so he froze a lake and dropped it on the fire.. Now in Superman Returns, he simply lunges the island into outerspace, like a night temp for UPS. He doesn't need to figure anything out, he just uses his "super strength". And Lex Luther's brilliance was shown at the premeditation level of a junkie who just ran out of junk.To say nothing of the fact that he threw that island into outerspace after getting stabbed with a KNIFE of kyrptonite right in the bloodstream AND the island itself was dripping kryptonite spores in his face, but he just averted his eyes and nose like it wasn't Grey Poupon he was looking at.
__label__1 I guess this movie is a fitting tribute to the first Superman film,as it is just as crummy and painfully long as the original.After an opening scene consisting solely of murky intergalactic visuals, the credits pay homage to the even-crummy-looking-for-their-time futuristic sweeping credits of the original Superman film.Then there is some more murky stuff. Ma Kent sees some kind of murky ruckus on the farm, and spends a good portion of my life slowly walking up to some debris in the cornfield. Then Superman sneaks up on her and faints.Next we catch up with Lex Luthor in a scene about many murky close-ups of an old lady as she dies. We don't see Luthor's face until the end of the scene, an early instance of the film's drive to leave no hackneyed stone unturned. Lex Luthor is a guy who doesn't like Superman because he is not human. Also, he probably doesn't like humans either, as the movie occasionally features some kind of plot about Lex Luthor planning to kill most of Earth's population.After a while, Clark Kent shows up back at his old job (I forgot to mention, he had been away on a five year trip where nothing happened). Then he finds out Lois Lane has an illegitimate kid and is dating Cyclops. It upsets him so much that he loses control of his super strength to such an extent that he accidentally breaks a picture frame.At this point we see that Miss Lane is on some kind of jet attached to some kind of space shuttle. It is some kind of important event on account of it is on television. Then we learn that there are people in a control room monitoring this event. There are also people watching it on television and there are pilots in the cockpit. The film then reminds us that these people are involved by cutting between them for most of the summer.As the events leading up to the inevitable disaster started to build, I excused myself to get a soda. I accidentally walked back into the wrong theater and watched that movie about Al Gore showing slides in its entirety. I tried to find my way back to Superman Returns, but I somehow wandered into Prairie Home Companion, which I watched twice in a row. Then it was time to stop messing around.I walked back into the first theater, found my seat, and looked up to see that the impending Lois Lane space shuttle disaster was almost upon us. Still, it seemed to be taking forever, so I wandered around the theater, met a girl, got married, raised a son and sent him off to college. While attending my son's medical school graduation, I remembered that I should probably check in on Superman Returns, so I excused myself and raced back to the theater only to learn there was no need to hurry. It still took about another half hour before things went wrong for Space Shuttle Lane. When they did, Superman saved everybody, which was pretty cool.. And then there is a a subplot where Superman turns really creepy and starts stalking Lois Lane and her family with his x-ray vision and super-hearing. Then he tries to get her to cheat on Cyclops, who seems like a good guy.Meanwhile, Lex Luthor is involved in some kind of contest to display every possible generic villain behavior before the end of the movie. I forgot to bring my scorecard home with me (they give you one at the door), but I think he scored damn close to one hundred percent. I hope he wins the million dollars.At this point, things start to gear up for the big murky finale. I think maybe the projector was broken, on account of the movie seemed to be in some kind of loop for a while here. I remember seeing murky things growing out of the water, Superman getting sick, Superman getting better, back to the murky things, he's sick again, no wait, he's okay again.Then Lex Luthor unleashed his final bad guy move: yelling at his girlfriend a little bit.Then Superman died and came back to life. I thought the movie was over, so I left.Ninety years later, the nursing home where I lived felt a little chilly. I realized I left my sweatshirt back in the theater, and I went to retrieve it. When I did, I was slightly surprised to find that Superman Returns wasn't over yet. I tried to ask some of the viewers what I missed, but most of them were only skeletons with long gray beards by now.I sat back in my old seat and watched as Lois Lane puttered around her house for a while. Then Superman showed up and started quoting the beginning of the movie, and since I already saw that part I thought it was okay to leave.So that is my review of Superman Returns.Oh, also, if you like jokes about people eating dogs or jokes about one dog eating another dog, you will love this movie. On account of there are two jokes like that in it.
__label__1 ...This would be the worst film i'd ever seen. Hmmm, OK maybe tied with Boogeyman then. Awful, truly awful.I had low expectations and it failed to meet them! I honestly cant think of one good thing. so here are the worst points...1. THE ACTING 2. THE PLOT 3. THE CGI (Xbox 360 has better graphics....seriously) 4. THE PLOT 5. THE DIALOGUE and finally.... 6. THE PLOT There are so many unanswered questions, Did they make a 2:32 hour long movie then realize they hadn't put Lex Luthor and Superman in a scene together and were forced to settle for the 3 minute bit or did they actually think no-one would notice that the main hero and villain have less screen time together than Superman's son and the henchman he kills?!!Was half the budget spent on persuading Kevin Spacey to do it?When Superman goes to hospital, why don't the doctors ask "What the F*** do you want us to do?! He's a F***ing alien! We don't know jack about his anatomy!"? What happened in the 5 years Superman was away to cause technology to advance 28 years? Where the people who wrote good reviews watching the same movie?and finally, Why? Just, Why? BTW, for those of you wondering how come Superman could lift an entire continent of krypyonite, i think i've figured it out......since superman is unaffected by the kryptonite till he sees something green in the rocks, it is clearly all in his head. therefore the continent thing is just him suppressing his fear of shiny green rock....either that or the writers are slack-jawed half-wits who didn't think that was a fairly obvious mistake.
__label__1 I saw the movie last night and I really wanted to like it. My expectations for the movie had been going up and down ever since I heard it was being made. Some days I'd see something spectacular and some days I'd be disappointed.Yet being the kind of fan I am, I had high hopes for this movie but in the end I was sorely disappointed.While I love the Richard Donner movies I didn't like their sometimes campy nature or the changes they made to Superman's character and his powers.Singer however chose to take the worst elements of the Donner movies and put them in his version.While his Lex Luthor is slightly darker he's still nothing more than a shyster, a conman and a common criminal. He's no more intelligent than when Gene Hackman played him. Kevin Spacey does his best to play Luthor well but ultimately he falls victim to shoddy writing and unremarkable dialog.His henchmen are more two dimensional than even comic book henchmen. Most of them literally have no dialog in the movie.****SPOILERS AHEAD**** Kitty Kowalski is almost exactly the same character as Ms. Tesmacher. She seems to be as evil and cold as Lex Luthor but she proves to be just an underling who melts after seeing Superman in trouble and quite predictably betrays Luthor.The biggest disappointment in the movie was Frank Langella as Perry White. I wasn't a huge fan of the over the top Perry White in the Donner movies but at least he had a soul. He was after all said and done, a veteran reporter who cared about the truth and a good story. Langella's Perry White is nothing but a corporate stooge. He wants everyone to concentrate on the Superman related stories because they sell papers even though every other paper is doing the same thing. He doesn't care about the real stories, the real mysteries like the black out and what Lex Luthor is up to now that he's out of prison.The worst thing about Langella is that he's DULL! Some actors can be quiet and sober and yet have an undercurrent that lets you know that still waters run deep. Frank Langella is puddle.Brandon Routh is not a bad actor. He's OK but again there is not a single memorable line in the whole movie. Not the actor's fault. His movements are clearly meant to look graceful, like even the slightest movement of his fingers effects the way he flies. But it still looks choreographed and artificial.Lois Lane while badly written was surprisingly well acted by Kate Bosworth. Unfortunately, again, for a Pulitzer Prize winning journalist and writer, she is about as eloquent as any teenage on Dawson's Creek.James Marsden was my favorite actor in the whole movie, mostly because he looks more like Superman than even Routh. Without any superpowers he manages to figure out Lois Lane's message, flies a plane to the location, gets on board Luthor's yacht and rescues Lois and her son.The only moving moment in the movie is when they are all trapped pantry as it is flooding with water and the ship is sinking. You see them slowly going being immersed in the water. You know Superman's going to come by at the last moment to rescue them but still you can't help but feel sorry for them.As I said before the plot is very haphazard. Unlike Singer has said, this is not a movie about a superhero returning and trying to find his place in the world. As soon as he returns the world welcomes him back with open arms. Lois is the only one who's not happy to see him back. Even Luthor is happy to have Superman back because it gives him a chance to settle the score with the man of steel.Superman is shown to be probably one of the dumbest heroes in the universe. A big green piece of meteorite is stolen from a museum, Lex Luthor is out of prison, he now has knowledge about Superman's powers and weaknesses, and yet he's still not able to connect the dots enough to know Luthor would be using kryptonite against him.According to the movie the only thing Superman is good for is lifting really, really heavy things. The action sequences are all incredibly predictable.
__label__1 This movie is a very poor attempt to make money using a classical theme. I used to love Superman movies, but this one made me want to shoot myself. Very poor acting, outrageous special effects, and a plot equal to zero. To summarize : Superman leaves earth, because scientists discovered pieces of his home planet, some were in space (duh) , doesn't tell his girlfriend anything before leaving (duh again), takes off in a spaceship (?!?),comes back i think 5 years later, and look forward to hooking up with his girlfriend again (who is now razing his son, which son, in my humble opinion is at least 7 years old). And what about that Lex Luthor ? Trying to grow a new continent in order to sell land ? Please !!I vote 1 out of 10 for this movie, only because i am not allowed to vote 0. If you have anything else to do with your time, don't go to see this movie, and even if you don't have anything else to do, stay home and watch TV !
__label__1 ******* Contains spoilers. Please skip if you have not seen the movie, or more importantly, liked it********** So, let me see if I understandwhat this movie taught me: 1. Superman was in space for five years to find out if Krypton, or at least parts of it, still existed. I'm guessing this, of course, because at no point in the movie was that ever extrapolated on. You know, we're just kinda/sorta supposed to know because he did the same thing in the comics. Don't you read the comics? No? Anyway, back story is for sissies.2. This is supposed to be the actual sequel to the original Superman, not any of the others. No, really. Honest. So what if feckless mannequins like Brandon Routh have none of the warmth and charm of Christopher Reeve? (In fairness, three and four *should* be utterly forgotten.) 3. Speaking of sequels, isn't it great that the "writers" took it upon themselves to redo the same catchphrases and mannerisms of the original characters? Why, that wasn't lazy at all. Seriously, God knows how many script doctors and producers and marketing kids mutated this thing. It took 33 uncredited writers to come up with the Flintstones movie. The Flintstones! 4. Big deal if the merchandising whiz kids at AOL Time Warner made the red in Superman's costume some kind of bizarre burgundy. (Don't *you* salute the Burgundy, White and Blue on the flag? I know I do.) 5. Starting the series from scratch would be terrible idea. So what if Batman Begins was both a success both critically praised and financially? That doesn't prove relaunching a series actually works. It's this kind of thinking that helped the kids at AOL Time Warner (I refuse to let them off the hook by disavowing AOL's stench) lose almost a billion dollars a few years ago. It takes guys who are waaaaaay smarter than me to lose that amount of money. I could never do it, and I'm pretty ambitious when it comes to blowing cash.6. That Marlon Brando is quite an actor.7. Lois Lane: Pulitzer Prize winner, devoted mother, yet not allowed to stay up past ten o'clock on school nights. Casting 23-year old Cate Blanchett was a stroke of genius. I figure Lois must have won have won her Pulitzer when she was, what, fifteen? Say what you want about Margot Kidder's descent into utter goofiness, at least she made a believable world-weary reporter, not a little girl playing dress-up.8. Speaking of Lois' kid, isn't it great that she and Superman had Super Rugrat? I assume he and Lois had sex again sometime after that whole Fortress of Solitude escapade. Remember, Clark's superkiss at the end of number two erased her memory. Otherwise Lois would just get preggers without any prior knowledge of how it happened. Which really ought to be a good reason not to kiss the guy, otherwise you'll forget where you parked your car. Or maybe she was seeing James Marsden at the exact same time and figured the baby was his. Wait -- does this mean she was cheating on Superman? 9. Anyway, back to Super Illegitimate Kid, who manages to kill a guy with a piano. True, the guy was a creep who had it coming, but shouldn't any child of The Man of Steel be taught that killing is very, very bad and deserves a time out? 10. Let's hear it for Supes being a paragon of virtue. Was that Clark and Jimmy drinking at a bar during work hours? It's also nice old Super Jealous found time in his busy schedule to illegally spy on Lois's home life with his X-ray vision. Just another example of the Patriot Act in action. And who's more patriotic than Mr. Burgundy, White and Blue? 11. Nice to see Lois has all the fealty of Olive Oyl. Sure, she's got a nice guy waiting for her at home, but Superman can still literally sweep her off her feet and float over the city in a loving embrace. Gee, I sure wish they did that in the 1978 version. Wait they did? 12. Then there's Lex Luthor, with his wacky pals he met in prison. What do you want to bet he has tattoos on his body like Robert DeNiro's in Cape Fear? For five years this genius had time to plot revenge on Superman and come up with a diabolical plan for world domination, and the best he can come up with is the same real estate scheme back in 1978? (Whoops, I mean 2001. Whatever.) This guy should be selling time shares in Florida. I wish Lex gave the 'people will pay through the nose for land' speech in the 1978 version. Wait really?? What a coincidence!13. Lois still has a brain the size of a chick pea and stows away aboard Lex's yacht. Exactly the sort of thing an intrepid Pulitzer Prize-winning teenager would do. Luckily Lex trumps her stupidity by deciding to kidnap her and Super Ankle Biter instead of doing the logical thing and call the police for trespassing. Oh well, logic is also for sissies.14. The last scene of Superman flying around the world was a nice touch. Golly, I sure wish they did that in the 1978 version. Wait, really? Aw, come on! I suppose I could add more, but I'm getting an ulcer just regurgitating this offal. This isn't meant to change anyone's mind. If you loved the movie, no amount of pointing out the HUGE flaws will make a difference. But hey, a movie like this involves turning your brain off. And off and off and off.Golly, look at the pretty special effects!
__label__1 or: It's a bird ? It's a plane ? No, look... It's a disaster ! or: No need to look up in the sky.or: (... OK, that's enough.) If singer tried to make a romantic titanic like movie to crash the box office record, he failed. The SR structure can't do this, the dark and restricted color scheme (I would call it "wishi-washi"), the boring usual dialogs, the clown with advanced alien technology, the missing fun and magic, etc. makes the movie completely disappointing.It simply doesn't work.The main thing at a character like superman is, that he is a superhero. That's the core, the most important thing.Love trouble and a sadly lost depressive Supersoftie can maximal only be a facet in a 2:40 long Superman movie, not the whole time.Because then it is not a superman or superhero movie anymore. It's like a (and in this case a very bad and boring) social study, where every 30 minutes a person flies around.That's a big difference.This movie is a joke. Holy skywalker, this is Superman, so give us Supervillains, Superaction and the most important thing, Superfun.We want ENTERTAINMENT ! Singer, if you want to make a 2:40 long soul love trouble drama about lost and sadly people ? Then take normal human characters and make a yentl remake.They say: Superman returns. And then, supersadlysoftie stands in the door.Maybe singer has tried to kill the legend without kryptonite, but one bad movie can't do this. Don't give up, they plan a sequel...Next time singer (and Warner Brothers), make a superhero movie, not a depressive superlame soap, or let it be. A superhero movie means a colorful fantasy with a lot of fun and magic.This movie is like a very cheap chocolate box with a super cover. Yes, technically there are all sorts in, yes, there is a lot of small talks, there are a few jokes, a view action scenes, etc, but the only one what all these worse pieces have in common is their poor quality.It's not more than a super boring patchwork and one of the worst movies I have ever seen in my live.The ridiculous cast strategy (Cast them young as possible, so we can make sequels in the next 25 years) gives the rest. Kate Bosworth plays a 22 year old star reporter, she's looking like 19. Superman was full five years away, so he slept with her 6 years ago, so she was 16, (looking like 13) and a daily planet reporter, wroting "I spend a night with superman". Warner Brothers, that's too much.Routh is not so bad, he is playing a little bit wooden, but the whole movie is wooden, so... ?! Temporary good were marsden and sometimes posey. The rest, forget it. Even spacey, this is not his terrain.Reeve/Hackman/Kidder were acting so easy, with fun. What a difference.The Jesus poses at the end are ridiculous too. What the hell should that be ? The problem here is, they mean this serious, not as a joke. Next time Spiderman or Batman or Ironman falls and rises like Jesus or angels ? Or they speak with god directly. Why not ? They are superheroes, saving human lives every day. So at least one talk with god every week should be possible... Oh my god.Maybe this was not the real announced movie, instead it is from a bizarre dull parallel universe.For the warner brothers this superlame depressive flick will be possibly the greatest disaster in history. Not only because of the money.I understand how difficult it (maybe) was to create and transport some messages or feelings, but showing lone, lost and sadly people isn't new and thousands of movies or TV-Shows did it better, in very old or new ones like magnolia. And the flying frogs there were more impressive than this flying superwoman, sorry, superman of course.Singer and WB, that's simply nothing. In fact it's even more than nothing, it's like a black hole that destroys the passion for (comic/superhero) movies and steals us three hours of our life.Mrs. Smilla's little brother. (Very angry and green like the hulk.)
__label__1 Did the movie-makers even preview this before they released it? The script jumps from place to place without giving much explanation. The beginning doesn't clarify if its a prequel or not. It starts with Superman's beginnings on Earth and then jumps to a point after the last movie - but doesn't really alert the viewer of this. VERY confusing! Superman himself is weak and in need of Prozac. He is portrayed as a potential home-wrecker, a stalker, and someone who is clearly depressed and confused. This type of character rarely makes for an interesting hero. The ending is absolutely ridiculous. Superman ending up in a hospital just made me want to kill him off myself. I'm seriously waiting for a SNL skit where Superman appears on Maury Povich and Maury says, "The results are in - in the case of the child, Superman, you ARE the father." To sum up - OK acting by this Superman and Kevin Spacey, but HORRIBLE script. The movie is basically unwatchable.
__label__1 I usually don't walk out of a movie, but halfway thru I did. This movie promised something different, but I kept thinking haven't I seen that before? Spoiler Alert! Back in 1, the spaceship crashes and lands on earth, well, all these years later, with a super adult on board no less, this thing still manages to burn up and crash! What, this advanced civilization can't seem to develop landing gear? For an industry that's so liberal, we get to see another Woody Allen movie, no blacks please! Superman runs around saving people, making sure he sticks to Europe and the US, don't go into darkie areas please. Maybe I could stomach this about 30 years ago, but now now.
__label__1 I went twice to see this movie. First on the Berlin Premiere, second time a week later. Why? Well, on premiere night I had tickets in row 7, of a huge theatre. I was hugely excited to see the new Bond (as I always have been for the past 25 some years). But hey, I had to LEAVE the theatre after 15 minutes. You simply can't watch that fast edited MTV Style movie in row 7 (!). No chance, absolutely. Okay so I went again, this time a nice seat all the way at the end of the same theatre. I could endure the MTV cuts, but not the massacre the producers did to Bond. (the director can't be held responsible, since the producers chose him and not vice versa). In 21 previous Bond films, one could really like the British super spy. His character, his smartness, some cool one liners, and yes, Ms. Broccoli, we the audience loved the gadgets. We loved Moneypenny, Q and M. Why did you take it all away? Why? We may never know...This Bond is just another action flick with a really mediocre storyline. For heavens sake, change the characters name, and you are not in one single moment reminded of the great super spy. Why bother then? For the action: Filming hand held and edit MTV style does not mean action automatically! The great Frankenheimer knew that, when he filmed some of the best car chases in "Ronin", Foster probably never saw that classic....For a reminder, since it comes up so many times in reviews on IMDb, Bond and Borne are two completely different franchises. Borne is chasing after his history, while Bond is saving the world. Just because Borne was such a huge success, don't try imitate him. Arrgh what a terrible film, it is such a shame. Regardless of what the box office says! P.S. and then you even dare to take away the gun barrel montage in the beginning, and no more "Bond, James Bond. Are you people mental?
__label__1 Thought this was one of the worst Bond movies ever. Nothing of the magic that made many of the other 007 movies so special was to be found here. The cutting of the film is terrible. masses of 2 second sequences thrown together - for no apparent reason. (as the movie is so boring I found myself counting "one...two...) over and over again. If the action is poor it appears a cheap trick to try to "create interest" by chopping it all up and using 25 cameras to shoot that which has no interest. It just comes across as irritating and silly.The car chase sequence in the beginning might have been good, if the filming thereof had been better. What could have been fantastic was destroyed (again) by the poor cutting of the movie. masses of sub second fractions thrown together making everyone confused as to who was being chased, who crashed etc.The race scene in Siena was utterly stupid. The cut back and forth from the Bond action to the race action again and again was utterly unrelated and therefore pointless. The scene in the movie were Bond discovers the underground lake and states "he is draining all the water" as an explanation to the central "badness" that the villain is about to do is utterly laughable and silly. The end scenes with the building which is designed to explode step by step was the last straw. I have rarely seen anything more staged and unbelievable. I considered leaving a few times as the movie was so boring but then I thought that "can it get any worse"? and yes, it could and did.We want James Bond 007 back again, lets pass this "experiment" into history and forget that it ever happened. The previous movie Casino Royale was a good action movie, though it wasn't a Bon movie (either). The Jason Bourne formula works, but Bourne is Not Bond and this is not a Bourne movie, i don't really know how to classify other than "utterly pointless", I couldn't see any redeeming features, no plausbile plot, no interesting characters, no fantastic sceneries, awful title song, no "Bond"-ness - at all
__label__1 Save your money. This movie is terrible and has nothing whatsoever to do with the iconic character of James Bond.Story: 0/10. The main plot was the worst of any Bond movie. Instead of saving the world, Bond is saving the people of a 3rd world country a few pennies on their water bill. Instead of fighting for the good of the free world, Bond is on a heartless revenge killing spree, and the free world is portrayed as almost universally corrupt. But the worst offense is the contrived "explosive hotel" in the middle of nowhere, in the desert. I'll bet they get a lot of tourism there! At least its made of some kind of material that burns without a single trace of smoke... -groan-!Characters: 1/10. Craig is terrible as bond, he has no charisma whatsoever. He broods for the entire film, never smiling, never delivering that cheeky charm that Bond should. The main Bond girl is a bundle of laughs... no wait, strike that, she's a depressing lump. The CIA girl is actually OK (thus the 1 point) but only sticks around for about 2 minutes before being killed. Felix, instead of being a smart, useful, and funny friend, is a waste of screen time and contributes nothing at all to the story. The villain does not even seem evil, just like a corrupt businessman (FAR from the world-domination-seeking villains of past). The deposed dictator is unbelievable and the implied rape scene at the end should NOT be in a bond film. M is the same as the last few Bond movies, a weak, bleeding-heart "mother" who could not possibly have the respect of MI6 agents in the real world.Production: 0/10. The action scenes have such short cuts that you can't focus on any of them. The result is utter confusion about who is punching whom. There are obvious and avoidable errors such as cutting between two scenes and the actors have changed positions.Franchise Loyalty: 0/10. Rename the main character and you would never be able to guess that this is a Bond film. You would probably guess it's a Bourne film. I don't demand the clichés such as "Bond, James Bond" (though you certainly won't find that here). But I do demand that the main character be a likable British guy showing off cool spy gadgets and attacking problems with intelligence rather than always brute force. There were no gadgets-not a single one!-and Bond was a cold-blooded murderer.This movie would be a below-average effort for a generic action flick. But putting the name "Bond" on it debases and defiles the Bond franchise. Those responsible for this atrocity should be ashamed of what they've done to try to turn a quick buck on a legendary franchise.
__label__1 This has to be THE worst bond film of all time! Right from the opening scene, which is traditionally an action packed opening to blow you away, was awful. It's fast paced action was lost by a camera set too close to the action and flicking between camera shots so fast it was subliminal and far to fast for the human brain to register any action. After a few seconds I was totally lost, as was everyone else I spoke too. This style continued throughout any action scene in the film, making them unwatchable and irritating. The fight scene in the theatre was lost, again too much flicking between camera shots. Yes it's great that modern cameras can get you "into the action" but there is such a thing as moving in too close and loosing all perspective of action. I love Bond films, but a Bond film needs to have, Gadgets, Fast cars, witty comments, good music, ( Sorry Jack White ) Q and a baddie with another baddie above him and one above him! Daniel Craig is a good Bond, but give him the script to make him great.
__label__1 *Plot Spoilers* but there is very little plot to be given away in this film! I had a hard time with CR and really hoped that QoS would be more Bond but I was to be sadly disappointed! Am I the only person left who likes a good plot, strong characters, gadgets, car chases and romance in a Bond film.....Daniel Craig is the most heartless Bond I have seen, He does not seem to a loyalty to anyone or his country, He's supposed to be everything thats cool about being a British agent but he was empty and charmless! The scene where Rene Mathis ends up in the boot of the car, gets shot and dies in Bonds arm, then has his money stolen was utterly immoral and unheroic. Many people have already written about how badly shot and directed QoS was. So I will get to main concern with QoS,What UPSET and OFFENDED me most was the implied rape scene near the end! This was disgusting and should not be in a Bond film or any film with a 12A rating!! The subplot of sexual assault shocked me. If it has been a 15 or even a 18 I might have expected to see something of this nature in the film. I have a 12 year old niece who would have had nightmares if she'd seen QoS. I think the 12A rating is a complete cop out !!!! QoS to me is a 15 .I hope is not just me that believes that films are becoming too desensitised, QoS is a plain example of this. I don't think I'll waste time and money seeing any future Bond films. Bring back Pierce Brosnan and his charm and warmth!To end on a positive, Dame Dudi Dench had the only good line in the film.
__label__1 I have just come from watching the latest Bond film, and I am very disappointed. A production team sat around and decided that as the Bourne films were good at a scene switch every 30 frames a scene switch every 15 frames would be twice as good. I was bored. I really can't describe how poor this film is. Static cameras, short cut and long cuts on trolleys. Then poor (long) exposure times and slow film to generate sense of action, just revealed amateurish cinematography. If you really need to see this wait for the DVD, I suspect it won't be that long. Apparently I have to elaborate on how poor this film is, so that I can post here. Well it is bad, rubbish and a disgrace. There is little or no direction, the cameramen directed the film directed by the producers. Craig and Dench will happily take their fee. No idea or interest in the other characters.
__label__1 Not the worst Bond movie, the worst movie, PERIOD. Completely unwatchable. Nothing to do with plot or actors or effects... the editing on this movie was unbearable. There are two action scenes in the first 15 minutes that are cut so badly it is impossible to tell what is going on. Literally, 2-3 cuts PER SECOND... and from infinite random bizarre angles as well... You can't tell how many people/cars are involved, where they are in relation to one another or anything. And, every other shot is something exploding or being destroyed with parts flying all over the screen.... Seriously, that's one of three shots per second where just debris is flying on the screen. Unwatchable. It's as if they shot each scene from 18 different angles and put all the tape in a blender.The action scenes are so impossible to follow, it made the movie too frustrating to watch. I actually left the theater after the second action scene - that's how bad it was. The editors should be banned from films for life.
__label__1 I am a HUGE Bond fan, books and movies. Loved Casino -- music, credits, gags, plot. Just watched it again. I will shell out bucks to see Daniel Craig's CHEST and his million watt smile, both MIA in this movie except for a nanosecond. They shot in Italy, for crying out loud -- couldn't they scare up a Lamborghini or a Testa Rossa for Bond to play with? No great cars; no sex, just talking about self-hate; no gadgets; Dench was wasted. Feeble plot, like bad 70's TV. Did anybody else notice that the girl's backstory was lifted from Hemingway's For Whom the Bell Tolls?TO THE PRODUCERS: 1. Bring back Gemma Aterton as the Bond Girl in the next one. Say that they made a mistake in IDing her in Quantum. She's got it all -- the Bond Style, wit, looks. And smarts enough that she isn't demeaning to women.2. Give Bond a CAR and some GADGETS to play with.3. Give us the theme back. If you have to have a new Bond theme, why not use You Know My Name from Casino? 4. Opening credits have to be DYNAMITE -- pic and sound. We go to the movie so that we can stamp our feet and clap and cheer when the theme and the gun barrel slam onto the screen.5. SEX, please. Wouldn't it have been nice in Quantum if Bond had tried to drown his sorrows by going AWOL, getting drunk, and having a whole lot of meaningless sexual encounters? But he really seemed to be over it at the end of Casino when he said, "The bitch is dead." Let's not have a Bond who lingers and gets involved. Fields is just the right amount of casual.6. Let us LAUGH. The world is a disaster, so give us some escapism.The wait isn't over. It's just beginning.
__label__1 He's back as a combination of the Terminator and Bourne.He doesn't need sleep.Can drink 6 gin cocktails straight down with no effect.Can jump off roofs landing on concrete or a bus top with no sprains. Fails 30 feet through a glass roof landing on scaffolding without a scratch or damage to his suit.Falls hundreds of feet from an aeroplane, but only needs the parachute for the last few feet.And fast. He's so fast you don't see his moves. Handcuffed in an elevator with 4 presumably lethally trained agents. He's renders the lot of them unconscious & is out of the cuffs & rearmed in seconds.Even though he credit cards are frozen, he still travels with ease. And his intuition is so advanced, he can tell where in a ferociously burning & exploding building his female chum is cowering. The jump cut editing makes all the action sequences so fast that they become chaotic & incomprehensible. Utterly, totally unbelievable visual gibberish. The makers should be ashamed. But they won't be because they have already made money.
__label__1 I really wanted to like Quantum of Solace, but try as I might it just wasn't possible. This film did not work on any level and since I love Bond films and count the days until their release I was very disappointed to find that Quantum of Solace wasn't worth the wait. I would say it's the worst Bond film ever, but I can't because it wasn't really a Bond film at all. It did have James Bond in it, but that's where the similarity ends. The opening sequence was unwatchable with bad cuts coming at me so quickly no information was to be had until the title sequence began. Then there was the awful theme song. I mean, I like the White Stripes and all, but really where's Shirley Bassey when you need her? The rest of the soundtrack isn't any better. Music just seems to be arbitrarily placed to fill up space with no relationship to the scenes at hand. Photographically most of the action sequences are largely out of focus and shot so closely no tension what so ever builds during the entire length of this film. This results in a lack of danger being felt and a separation of the audience from the film itself. You never care about the characters and that is the death of any film. The story is thin and full of holes. Actually there is not much story at all. Seems like the filmmakers got spooked by the Bourne films and tried to make something comparable but just ended up with a washed out watered down version of a bad Bourne film. Sad really. There is one good part. Near the end, for a split second, a small snippet of the original Bond theme is played. That's the only thing about this film worth anything. It is such a bad day for Bond to have this drivel put out to represent what Bond has meant for the last 45 years. As I said earlier, usually I can't wait for the release of next Bond film. During the screening of this disaster I couldn't wait for it to end and release me from the theater. What a painfully sad and irresponsible destruction of the Bond legacy.
__label__1 The worst James Bond director of all time, with "Casino Royale" martin Campell made a classic James Bond and with "QOS" mark Foster destroyed everything. But seriously the editing is so poor you can never figure out what is happening it is like watching "Blair witch project". So much money spent on traveling to exotic locations but the viewer has no chance to enjoy the scenes are cut so fast that you never get the chance to see anything.Seriously did the studio exec viewed the movie before release as I don't know who gave the green light to release the movie , he should be replaced.But it is with great sadness I had to say this, but it is a total MESS. Please get Martin Campell or someone who is experienced in directing action movies for the next Bond movie. I still have faith in the bond character and with the right script and DIRECTOR it can be a total entertainment for movie goers.
__label__1 One more time... after the intense action but zero Bond factor movie (Casino Royale) the filmmakers decide to pull this sequel of overall nonsense. Yes, yes.. previous Bond's movies also contained tons of science fiction and unreasonable events... yet, all of them were covered with the Charm and wits of the perfectly trained, smart and handsome super spy named Bond.. James Bond. Today... we have this totally unrefined dude, who kills more like a gangster, who spends 99% of his time frowning or doing weird things with his mouth like ZOOLANDER!!!! The plot is ludicrous.. the villains are even more ludicrous than the star actor.. I saw people yawning at the theatre!! The best part of the movie must have been the first 5 minutes of car chasing, and not because of the actor or the chasing itself but due to the amazing Aston Martin DBS. I find it hard, really hard to understand how people keep on scoring this movie or its predecessor with 7 or 8... Something must be wrong.. really wrong.
__label__1 If I hadn't spent $8 to get into the theater I would have left this movie about half way through. But I stayed, hoping it would eventually get better  no such luck. I think Disney let their idea people get out of control. The movie just got too crowded with special effects and totally goofy plot twists, which eventually robbed a good cast of any opportunity to actually act. Davey Jones and his crew are so over-endowed with gimmicks squirming over their bodies that they ended up more being more distracting than entertaining. And why did the director need to get so focused on being as gross as possible? Instead of gratuitous sex Disney gives us gratuitous slime. Johnny Depp nibbling on a necklace made of human toes was something I didn't get; I didn't need it, and neither did the movie.Compared to the first film, Dead Man's Chest was a let down. I can't think of any redeeming qualities, except maybe that it is making a few people a lot of money.
__label__1 Let me start off by saying how much I loved the first PotC movie. I adored it. It's not on my list of favorite movies of all time, but I still adored it. Johnny Depp was brilliant, the story was fun, it was immensely entertaining, even Orlando Bloom didn't annoy me as much as he usually does. But this thing? People are comparing THIS to The Empire Strikes Back? THIS movie beat the records of Revenge of the Sith and Spiderman? Two movies that are actually GOOD? Instead of comparing Dead Man's Chest to The Empire Strikes Back (my favorite movie of all time), I would compare it to Temple of Doom. It was nowhere near as good as the first movie and relied far too much on special effects and "gross out" moments. Disney made the mistake that studios often make when they have an extreme success with an action movie: they assumed it was the special effects that people liked, not the story or the characters. Where was my beloved Captain Jack? The movie was TWO AND A HALF hours long. You think they could have put him in it more, but no. His character was also rather one-dimensional in this film, having hardly any scruples for abandoning his friends and such. The plot was contrived and just plain dumb. Half the time I had no earthly idea what was going on. In fact, the friend I saw the movie with kept poking me in the arm and asking, "Wait...what's happening?" And don't get me started on the villain. He was a freaking OCTOPUS. All the CGI they used for the various undead things looked so cheesy. They weren't frightening in the least. What about Davy Jones's motive? Why DID he want Captain Jack's soul so much? I was utterly confused.Finally, what was UP with the whole romance between Elizabeth and Jack? What about Will? I know any woman in her right mind probably WOULD choose Johnny Depp over Orlando Bloom any day, but this makes the romance between Elizabeth and Will in the first movie pretty pointless. And their romance was most of the PLOT in the first movie.So, basically, I hated this movie. It wasn't offensively bad, though, and not AS bad as Temple of Doom (what is?) I was laughing throughout the entire thing at its utter stupidity. Frankly, though, I would rather go be disappointed by X3 again.Which is pretty sad.
__label__1 This movie is horrendous in terms of plot, character development, and overall quality. It was such a disappointment after seeing the first one. I did not have huge expectations as other fans may have, but I did at least want a quality movie.Other users have pointed this out in their reviews. This movie is a complete setup for Pirates #3 and possibly #4. I refuse to see the sequels as I feel they made me waste 2.5 hours of my time and money to set up Pirates #3. All the users who praise the movie, I have no idea what you are talking about. Don't waste your time and money seeing this.This movie has nothing original about it. They provide the exact same jokes and perspectives as the first one. In addition, they steal several ideas and scenes from other movies. It's so annoying, boring, and proves to be a failure. A couple of my friends fell asleep during the movie during the slow progression and overall stupidity of plot. The ending is completely painful. The movie just stops abruptly and the credits roll. You leave with the most horrendous taste in your mouth and most disgusted feeling (as anyone would feel after having wasted hours of their time and money to see basically a trailer).
__label__1 AHOY SPOILERS......Well i was a big fan of the original film and saw it multiple times in the cinema. The trailers for the new film were a little disappointing so helped not get my expectations too high but i still went to see dead mans chest with a fairly positive mind.OH DEAR...... Now lets start what was good about the film as it is a much shorter list....well the GGI was really good. Davy Jones looked awesome and his henchmen also looked great. The escape from the Tribe was also quite funny.Now onto the bad, well for starters the film didn't have the fun swash buckling feel too it, they went allot darker and for me this didn't work. In the first film the back stabbing had a humorous element to it, in this it felt cold and wrong. Also the humour was just repeat jokes from the first film. There were like 5 rum jokes in the film and only 2 of them were funny. There was hardly any original material, that made you laugh like the first film.The film also feels like the first part of a longer film, which of course it is but it does not stand alone by itself as a good film. They cram so much story and plot into and none of it is paid off in this film. The cliff hanger at the end does not feel like a cliff hanger the film just stopped and even the ending was contrived. They should have done an Indiana Jones and done two separate films with two separate plots with the same cast.Also the film felt very forced. Why 2 years after POTC would the Indian trading company only just decide to arrest will turner?? Why would they also want to arrest Commander Norrington for letting Jack go when Norrington apparently chased Jack Sparrow till he lost his crew?? Why the hell were the two pirates from the first film rowing a boat in the middle of the sea?? Why after escaping does Elizabeth go and see the Lord?? Why when her and will are reunited do they care about getting a pardon, they are both free why not go and live in china?? How the hell do they go and see the witch at the end without a boat?? why see the witch at the end at all?? EVen the set up for the next film was forced.To me it feels like they had a whole load of sequences and gags planned and then they wrote a script around it. The editing was also really bad, one minute Jack is running away on the Black Pearl the next he is a Tribe leader and what the hell was will trying to do at the end with all of the dynamite and rum, yeah the plan worked but it should not have done.If Pirates 3, is the best film ever then this film could be redeemed. As it stands at the moment it sucks big time and is pure filler. If you are a fan of the first film see this at your own risk.
__label__1 The Bruckheimer/Verbinski team is at it once again, and once again they have completely failed. This is so typical of the Disney Franchise....to take a legendary show, write a mediocre script (that has nothing to do with the actual Lone Ranger), and get a big name like Johnny Depp to star in it. Let's face it, with Johnny Depp starring, people are going to see the movie no matter how terrible it is, simply because he is in it. This is something that Disney does very well. They take a show that's more than 30 years old (1957 in this case) and they remake it into a movie because the majority of their fan base is under 30 years old, so they have no idea how accurate the movie actually is.First of all, the real Lone Ranger was one of the bravest men alive, not a sniveling little wimp (as depicted in this movie). The characters (including Tonto) looked nothing like the actual characters in the original Lone Ranger. What's up with the thick crumbling face paint, and the dead bird on his head? He looks more like a pygmy that just got off the first plane from the Congo in Africa. This movie is nothing but another 2 1/2 hour 'Pirates of the Caribbean' with characters dressed as cowboys and Indians. This is because Bruckheimer and Verbinski have one style and one style only. They are not talented enough to expand, so all of their movies have the exact same recipe (good guys, fighting the bad guys, for a damsel in distress). Let's face it, we all know that Disney has completely lowered the criteria for talent in this country with all of these "so-called" new Disney stars such as: Selena Gomez, Miley Cyrus, Demi Lovato, Ashley Tisdale, Hillary Duff, Lindsay Lohan, and Vanessa Hudgens. They can't sing, act, or dance their way out of a box if they wanted to.This movie is such a flop in the hugest way, it saddens me that they spent 250 million dollars to make it. I'm guessing most of this money went to pay the salaries of the actors. This is definitely one of those movies that you will spend the last hour looking at your watch every five minutes waiting for it to end. Don't get me wrong, I think Johnny Depp is a wonderful actor, but the fact that he keeps accepting roles in these mediocre Disney films simply says that he is a complete sell out. It's hard for me to discern exactly what stereotype he's tackling with this oddball incarnation of Tonto, which has all the eccentricity of Captain Jack Sparrow, but only half of the wit. Depp has become another sellout who will take any movie role for X amount of money; there is no artistic integrity involved. Armie Hammer, who I also enjoy, does not have the acting ability to pull off a lead role such as this. He is much better used in co-starring roles such as his role in J Edgar.The most important aspect of the original Lone Ranger was that it always had a lesson that each episode taught us, something of ethics and morality. This movie does nothing of the kind, it is simply a western with people blowing stuff up. If you're a typical Disney sheep, who will pay good money to see any movie that Disney throws at you, you will probably love this movie. This is what they count on, and is the reason they keep making these awful films. If you are a preteen, you will probably love this movie. If you're one of those people who worship Johnny Depp and will pay to see anything that he is in, you will probably love this movie. If you want to see a movie that has any artistic integrity, or a movie that has a great story and plot, you will hate this movie. If you grew up watching the original Lone Ranger, you will be sadly disappointed (once again) at the mockery that Disney has made of a pure classic. I can understand why Depp is in disguise and Hammer wears a mask...I would be embarrassed to be in this film as well. Hi Ho Silver Away!
__label__1 I think Rotten Tomatoes finally got it right this time. Giving this film less than 25% approval rating is on the mark. I wasn't a fan of the original series, but I knew that from the trailers, I probably would not like this film. I still gave it a shot, and boy did it fail to deliver, miserably. This movie is essentially a Pirates of The Caribbean movie, set in the Old West. Johnny Depp as Tonto is doing the same old shtick he did in Pirates, Jack Sparrow basically wandering through the desert. His attempts at humor are the same, deadpan expressions as he wanders through overly exaggerated and unrealistic special effects sequences. His sidekick (sorry, but that's essentially how the power relationship is set in this film) is a scared, gun-shy lawyer John Reid played by Armie Hammer. Throughout the movie, we are supposed to be cheering this guy on, hoping he can avenge the death of his brother and bring the bad guys to justice. But all he does is whine and complain. They should have called him The Moan Ranger. Depps performance was quite bad, and I would say, offensive to native Americans of all nations. The way he talked, his behavior, I mean, they tried to explain it away as him having been scarred emotionally as a kid, but really, it sounded more like an apology for Depp's stereotypical portrayal. There were also weird random things that left one's head scratching, like the crazy rabbits that popped up. What the heck? Are we to believe that this stuff was based on reality, or are just watching the fantasy laden recollections of an aged Tonto who's liberally adding these elements to entertain the little boy in the 1933 museum? The part about the movie that really bother me, however, was the fact it had an overall feel that it was geared towards families, but there were scenes of such nasty brutality and violence, it was a really upsetting juxtaposition. Now, I'm all for gory and violent films, I watch them all the time. But those films are rated 18A. This one gets away with a PG or PG-13 rating, but people die horribly, and in many cases, for no reason. I guess the fact that they don't show any blood spurting out is why the censors and ratings board gave it a pass. Overall this film is quite boring. I was taking power naps through many of the slow parts. It barely picks up speed, and when it does, you don't really care anymore. And why just have one locomotive crashing scenes when you can have two! Yes, two train crashes in the same film, talk about losing creativity. It felt very repetitive. None of the supporting characters or actors stood out. And quite frankly they felt just as annoying as The Lone Ranger himself. I think the white horse was the most interesting character on the screen. Avoid this movie, just rent it for $2 out of your local movie dispensing machine. Send the studios a message, so they won't make any sequels, and they'll bury this attempt at a franchise for good.
__label__1 Where to start. I am a 17 and therefore have no right to compare this to the old Lone Ranger radio and TV show. However, I have enough knowledge to gather that this was an utter failure of a movie when compared. From the beginning, I was certainly intrigued. The framed storyline told by the leathery-skinned, and broken English-speaking Tonto seemed like a great way to introduce the story. Soon, after John's brother dies, my attention span derailed, much like the steam engine in the beginning. The tone seemed like it would be serious. And the director's couldn't decide if it would be.There were many intense, almost dark scenes that could have made a great film about scandal and morality, and the soundtrack did its job highlighting important moments. The betrayal of Tonto to his people, the heart eating brutality by Cavendish, the corrupt greed of the railroad, and the horrifying conflict between "Civilization" and the Indians (including a devastating massacre by Gatling gun), all could have made a fantastic film with the same dramatic caliber as "Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee," but instead found themselves among ill-placed jokes, a painfully cowardly "hero," and so much CGI, that I found myself trying to find what was actually real scenery. An hour could have been cut from this as well, between a useless hint of a love interest between the "hero" and his sister-in-law, the captivity of the main actress (whose escape is never explained), and dry, uninteresting humor that ruins any form of being a serious storyline. Did we really have to see CGI cannibalistic rabbits, or Depp and Hammer buried long enough to joke and be licked by a horse? And even in its length, the Lone Ranger still doesn't become the legendary hero, or anything more than a over-honored weakling who shows up just in time to save the day. I do admit, the classic train chase at the end did take on that feeling of a Wild West show, but could have used a healthy dose of realism to make it not so outlandish.The Lone Ranger was a disastrous flop, full of pointless scenes and plot changes, weak and stereotyped leading characters, and a despairing glimpse of what could have been a fantastic film. With its storyline balancing tediously between a "Rescue/Revenge" flick and a "Moral Justice" drama, the script could not have possibly fulfilled both ideas to match the status of the legendary hero.
__label__1 Reasons to vote thumbs up for this film: (1) You are in the age group that knows nothing about the LR icon, story and/or cinema-TV history (2) You like a mindless drivel script the kind of script that has the lone ranger pulled by a rope along the ground with his bare head dragged through horse s- - t. (3) You are related to the movie (4) You have a skewed cinema value system (5) You enjoy seeing the LR slam Tonto in the head with a heavy metal shovel and then ride off and leave him (to die???)and this after Tonto saved his life (I did say senseless) (6) Script writers have the LR tell us he believes the saloon prostitutes are all 'dancers' (7) You are forced to watch scene after scene with a kid and come-to- life museum exhibit Tonto that has nothing to do with the story except to interrupt it (8) See the LR make a mocking joke about his brothers death as he says in joking fashion " I guess I'm the wrong brother". Okay you get the picture. I did like the train wreck scenes since they truly represented the film which itself was a major train wreck. Very often when you see multiple screen writers, in this case THREE, you know a cinema train wreck may be heading your way. Horse Silver was mocked, the endearing term Hi Oh Silver was mocked, the LR is portrayed as a brainless air head, the LR was so emotionless he shed not a tear when he watches, from inches away, as his brother was butchered in a much worse fashion then an effort by Dexter. A love interest was created and followed for hours even though we all know the LRs only real 'love' interest is his horse Silver.Johnny Depp has a strange sense of humor which often works. His close efforts and involvement in making this movie destroyed every premise of this cinema icon. Since Depp played Tonto as an emotional cripple that may explain what we are forced to view. Wow, watching the LR accuse Tonto of being complicate in the deaths of 100's of his tribe's men, women and kids when Tonto was shown as nothing worse then an innocent 10-12 year old was again nonsensical.So long as some like nonsense (hey look at the Adam Sandler following) and have no 'feel' for the LR icon and history you will see many thumbs up. That does not turn a awful piece of cinema garbage into a deserving presentation.Pros: Some awful nice scenery and special affects.
__label__1 I love western movies. Westerns are one of my favorite genres of movies. So I watched this movie with great expectations. A Disney movie, high production, and actors weight like Johnny Depp? I'm not a fanatical fan of Johnny Depp but I generally like his movies. So, "what could go wrong?" I thought.My Jesus, I really hate this movie! I mean, the film tries to be everything - tries to be funny, epic, dramatic, tries to outline a novel, but it does not seem to be a genuine western movie. Worse than that, it does not remember anything the characters Lone Ranger and Tonto. It's as if they had created two totally different characters, but with the same names.Lone Ranger here is a complete moron, made a fool all the time and an annoyingly politically-correct character. The film was supposed to be about him, but he did not have charisma enough to be the protagonist, and is fully eclipsed by Johnny Depp.But if Johnny Depp steals every scene as Tonto, even your character annoyed me. What the heck they did with Tonto in this film? What the heck was that stuffed bird? True Tonto was not a lunatic or a madman. He was not dressed in flashy clothes.In this film, Tonto is not a real Native American, he is literally Jack Sparrow tired of the pirate life that moved to the West and changed its name to Tonto.And what about the villains? All, without exception, seem pirates of the caribbean dressed in cowboy clothes, which fell parachutes in the west. The unique character of this film that seems to have brain is the Horse, and if the most intelligent character in a western story is an animal, this mean there are problems.The plot is a spectacular mess, jumping from action scenes, to violent and heavy scenes, for children's jokes, for really trash moments. What the heck was the scene with the rabbits? And what was that scene with the character of Helena B. Carter shoots with a gun inside the boot? Worthy scenes to appear in any show or film of Seth MacFarlane no doubt.I mean, really? What this film aims to be? An epic western for adults, an Disney movie for kids or a parody trash like "A Million Ways to Die in the West"? They should have chosen only one of these alternatives, because join all this in a quilt does not work.This film is a complete bullshit. I lost almost three hours of my life that no longer return. I give one star to the hair of the character of Helena Bonham Carter, though.
__label__1 This review is going to be full of spoilers because I am going to mention various gaping plot inconsistencies and outright idiocies in this dog of a film.Sure, it looks great and the special effects are generally well done. But some people need their movies to at least make some sense.Let's start with a really basic one: the planet Krypton is going to be destroyed, and no one can be saved except one baby, presumably because they don't have any spacecraft.Oh but wait, they do have spacecraft. In fact, they have so much spare technology they use it to send criminals into space... so that they will survive and provide enemies for Superman later in the movie.Jor-El steals the Codex, which apparently contains the DNA of the Kryptonian race. Somehow, there are no backup copies. Oh but what about the actual Kryptonians who are running around destroying things... surely they each have their own DNA? Apparently not, somehow. And how about that baby-making machine in the scout ship: what was it supposed to use if there's only one Codex? Clark just happens to hear about some top secret ice digging, and somehow knows to go there. How? And Lois Lane is somehow given a tour of the dig and a free place to stay even though she had to sue to be allowed there at all.Clark discovers the spacecraft and somehow knows how to pilot it and land it somewhere. But then it never gets used again, for example to help fight the invaders later on. Doesn't it have the same kind of engine that's needed to destroy them? And it actually can fly rather than needing to be dropped via an airplane, as Clark's baby spacecraft is at the end of the film. But somehow no one thinks of this. When Clark is taken to General Zod's ship, he loses his powers because he supposedly needs the gasses in earth's atmosphere to gain and retain his powers. Yet he's shown repeatedly operating in the vacuum of space. If he needed Earth's atmosphere to retain his powers, he should lose them in space.In numerous fight scenes, massive damage is caused to probably inhabited buildings, which must have resulted in massive loss of life. Why wouldn't Clark/Superman immediately lure his enemies far away from the city, fight over the ocean, in the mountains, etc? In one scene he deliberately throws an enemy through a bunch of buildings, apparently not caring who gets hurt.At the end, when the world engine is working, Superman flies into its gravity beam where his powers shouldn't exist because the conditions it's creating are like those of Krypton. But after being unable to do anything, he somehow just decides he's going to do it, and then instantly destroys the machine. Because if you really really decide, then you can do anything. General Zod's ship will be flipped back into the Phantom Zone if its drive field comes in contact with another drive field of the same type, as found in Clark's baby spacecraft. But wait, don't all their small spacecraft use the same engine? Why don't they cause the same problem?At the end, Superman and General Zod have an extended fight and appear to be equally matched, but when Zod threatens a prototypical family of Father, Mother and Child with his heat vision (and which he somehow doesn't manage to hurt although all he'd have to do is move his eyes slightly), Superman easily kills him, although he was completely unable to damage him until then. Again, just deciding to do something makes it happen.These are just some of the really obvious major problems, how about some minor but equally stupid ones? Perry White, Jenny and Steve are walking away from General Zor's ship when Perry says "where's Jenny?" Oh, she's suddenly stuck under rubble that apparently no one noticed falling, and she hasn't bothered to scream or make any sound at all. They struggle to free her, when suddenly the beam stops and they say "He saved us!", even though they didn't know anything about Superman trying to save them, nor that the destruction wouldn't resume, or in fact anything about what was going on.Martha Kent is violently flung 20 feet or more. But apparently she's completely unhurt even though she's elderly and even a simple fall should have been damaging.When Superman and Zor are fighting, they fly a great distance and end up falling through the ceiling of something that looks like Grand Central Station. After a few seconds, Lois Lane suddenly appears out of nowhere, because she should be in that scene. In a 'heartwarming' scene at the end, Jonathan Kent sees young Clark playing with a cape and gets all misty eyed. Wait, how did he associate a kid playing with a cape with anything at all? Why would a cape signify something to him? It wouldn't.This is a movie that didn't bother to make any sense, and the fact that people accept all the illogic, plot holes and dumbness of it really depresses me. Special effects shouldn't be enough to make a movie popular. The story and the logic of the story should count for at least as much and more.
__label__1 I know that this is not a sequel to the other films or series... But if something should exist in this one is the consistency... You can not just take a symbol (for some like me sacred) such as SUPERMAN and make this joke called MAN OF STEEL only for get a lot of money (that is called "sell your soul")... The essence of Superman is that he is the symbol of hope, because of that SUPERMAN is not a SUPER-MAN by their supernatural powers, instead he is by their conviction, principles and values​​, the teachings of his father Jhonathan and what learns JOR-EL (not in 5 minutes)... Therefore:-SUPERMAN does not kill!!! (No matter what happens)-Jhonathan always will protect Clark's secret, but never say it was better to let children die because of it. never! -Jor-El dies stabbed? Lara dies alone??? -Jhonathan dies in a hurricane, and Clark does not do anything???-Clark becomes Superman in less than 5 minutes, only for wearing the suit? -Lois Lane tells almost half the planet that Clark is SUPERMAN (she even goes to the Kent house, looking for Clark with the police)...-SUPERMAN does not kill... Did i told you that???I've always admired the work of Kevin Costner, Russell Crowe, Lawrence Fishburne, Diane Lane, among others... But I can not understand that they have agreed to participate in a film that should inspire people to always be better based on the fact that the truth, justice, equality and above all humanity are most powerful things of all the universe.Today my heart feels stabbed and my faith in humanity more destroyed than ever, the few things that inspired me to always become a better person is destroyed, trampled and spit like crap ... Even worse is to see the indifference of those who criticize the movies and say that it is an excellent movie just to be full of special effects an a history without sense... Even I read someone say that Henry Cavill is much better SUPERMAN than Christopher Reeve, when the truth is that Chris Reeve was much more SUPER MAN in real life until the end of his days, than it was in their own movies...I think at heart, that this team had in its hands the opportunity to do something magical, colossal but, they waste time in making this blockbuster only by the desire of the money ...Dc Comics I will not even think of the anger I have against you right now!I just hope that IMDb publish this review as it was written so that if any person connected directly with the creators of this movie can understand my frustration and maybe if they plan to make a sequel to this movie rectify and understand that they are are dealing not only with a success at the box office but the idea that behind that "S" which means HOPE hides much more... SUPERMAN is not a comic, not a fantasy character, not a marketing article... It is an idea, a way of life, that there are still good things in the world... respect that!This is a translation with the help of Google Translate
__label__1 Guys... I'll be honest here... This movie does not do justice to Superman. I mean, for a person who doesn't know anything about Superman except that he flies around in a blue suit, will find the movie exceptionally good. But for a person who has ever tried to read Superman or watched Superman stuff before, this movie is going to be a disappointment.The movie doesn't portray what Superman stands for. For the last 75 years, Superman has been a pacifist. He JUST DOESN'T KILL...NO MATTER WHAT.. HE JUST DOESN'T KILL....SPOILER ALERT: 1. The movie shows that the blue suit was given to Superman by Jor-El. But this hasn't appeared in any version of Superman so far. In fact, its Martha Kent, who gave the suit to him.2. Clark finds the suit on an abandoned Kryptonian Scout Ship. Now the point to be noted is... the ice around the ship was found to be over 3000 years old... So the ship must have landed there over 3000 years ago... While Clark's age is shown to be only 33 years... Does that mean Jor-El sent a ship to Earth 3000 years ago, with a suit that he wanted to give as a gift to his son 3000 years later??? 3. Jonathan Kent didn't die in a tornado... he died of a heart attack in all versions of Superman ever published...4. The Genetic data of all kryptonians was never a part of Superman's body cells.. In fact, there were only a handful of survivors which escaped in the bottled city of Kandor.5. Clark Kent grows up on Earth and spends 33 years of his life adjusting to his powers... Zod does that in minutes?????? 6. The much awaited Superman's Rippled Shield of the house of El which was much advertised... I didn't see in on Superman's suit... I saw it at the end-credits...7. Superman goes super-sonic??? Blasphemy.... He is the guy who can travel faster than the speed of light... and they only manage to make him go super-sonic??? 8. Superman never lets innocent civilians get hurt... NEVER... He will give up his own life to protect them... Yet in the entire fight sequence he never tries to take the fight away from Metropolis. Instead he keeps on ramming Zod into buildings and brings down half the city...killing God know how many...9. Helicopter sequence... Superman saves the guy who fell from the Helicopter which has gone out of control... But he lets the pilot and remaining crew perish and crash to the ground.10. Superman coughs up in smoke... as shown in the movie itself... when he was a kid... he saved a bus from drowning... and then saved Pete Ross too... He is able to hold his breath under water... In the oil- rig scene... he stays under water when the oil rig explodes... When he takes flight for the first time he goes in the orbit in the outer space... all of that... and amidst a little smoke... he stars coughing like he has contracted Tuberculosis??? 11. Superman collapses and "BLEEDS" from the mouth when he enters Zod's ship... Dude.. seriously... Kryptonite makes him weak... and he becomes like an ordinary human in presence of a Red Sun like Krypton had... But never does he BLEED...12. And the best one of all of them... Zod is trying to kill a few people with his heat vision... Superman has Zod in a vice and he is holding Zod's head... perfectly capable of directing Zod's heat vision wherever he pleases... or he could have covered up Zod's eyes with his hand... But instead... He chose to break his neck... Wow Superman... way to stand by everything to symbolized for the last 75 years...Believe me when I say this... the movie was good.. but it just wasn't Superman... it was some random guy in a blue suit who flies around killing people.
__label__1 Since the Chronicles of Narnia are a series of widely read and revered books I had to give my first rating of a 1 for this film. We went opening night and I was very disappointed and my wife was in tears by the end because of her disappointment. So much of Lewis' humor was lost in favor of an action movie plot with running battles, some added that aren't in the book while other important pieces from the book are left out. It became just one long tedious battle. And a romance between Caspian & Susan? We love those books so very, very much that it was painful to watch. Our children ages 21, 18 & 15, who were raised on Narnia, were not just disappointed but angry... My eldest daughter was livid. Her close friend whom we had introduced to Narnia just two years ago was very unhappy with what was left out of the film not to mention all that was added. My wife and I felt it was as if the person who wrote the screenplay hadn't read the books at all. Two revealing things we noticed too were during the opening credits with Actors and Directors and Producers names in huge type, it seemed to us that "From a book by C.S. Lewis" was in much smaller type. Also, during the previews of coming attractions, there was another fantasy movie advertised and it had in large print, "From a writer of the Chronicles of Narnia". They must have been referring to a screenwriter, but it was very aggravating! There was only one author of the Chronicles of Narnia and it was C.S. Lewis! Interestingly, they decided to cast all the Telemarines as evil Spaniards. I found that fascinating and would like to know the rationale behind that? In the books, the girls do not participate as warriors, Aslan having said war is unpleasant and decidedly so if girls participate. However, in the movie, Susan is a major warrior and is seen leading Narnians and firing her arrows into Telemarines all over the place. At the final climax and their departure from Narnia, (she and Peter for the last time) she and Prince Caspian first exchange longing glances, which you've been aware of all throughout the film, and then they passionately kiss! I'm all for that of course, but not in this movie about this book... to quote a little boy who was sitting with his grandfather in front of us, "That was yucky!"
__label__1 I'm obligated to say that this review contains "spoilers," but I use this term reservedly since I'm not sure this movie can really be spoiled. At least, I'm not sure how you would be able to tell.Einstein's famous equation E=mc^2, part of his theory of relativity, explains how it is physically impossible for the opening chapters of Lewis' "Prince Caspian" to be rushed through any more quickly than was done by Adamson's abomination of the same name. It literally made me dizzy. I'll just lay it out there and get it over with; Adamson follows the storyline of the book very well. In the book, the Pevensies come to Narnia, help Caspian gain his rightful throne, and then go home; Andrewson has all three of these things happen in the movie. That's about where the similarities end. In a pathetically feeble attempt to keep fans of the book happy, Andrewson plugs in a few scenes or references from the book that don't interfere with his plot. At first, it's kind of interesting to see what kind of events he makes up to tie in the other events he made up with the events from the book. We miss this later in the movie, though, as he pretty much abandons the events from the book until the end. All this happens because he really wants the Pevensies to meet up with Caspian earlier; I have absolutely no idea why this was so important to him. It doesn't really add anything and it wreaks havoc with the storyline. In his determination to be as faithful as possible to the spirit of the book, Adamson hacks out all the events in Narnia that lead up to the blowing of the horn and almost all of the Pevensie's journey to Aslan's How. Shockingly, cutting out the first half of Lewis' story and replacing it with his own leaves the scenes taken from Lewis' story, both those later in the movie and the few scenes randomly inserted in the beginning, seeming somewhat incongruous and forced. You can almost tell what scenes or dialogue are from the book even if you haven't read it, simply by noticing the discontinuity. Whenever, a character seems to be acting out of a character or a scene seems to have little to do with the plot, it's probably from the book.I can't imagine what could make this Andrewson character (his real name is Andrew Adamson, by the way) think he has the artistic credentials to make such a massive revision to such a great work. It's not like he's on the short list for a lifetime achievement award here. Does he honestly think he can improve on Lewis? Does he realize that the whole reason this movie is being made is because so many people love Lewis' story? Does he think Lewis' plot isn't good enough? It's not like Lewis' story lacked dramatic tension or action or character development. Andrewson didn't supply what was lacking, he just changed for no apparent reason, exhibiting monumental arrogance in the process. I'm going to harp some more on this because it really baffles me, what was gained by all these revisions? Did Andrewson just decide to use Lewis' story as a platform for his own ideas because he has no respect for a great author, or did he actually have the arrogance to think he could somehow improve on or tell Lewis' story better than Lewis could? I wish I could know what was going through his mind "hey, I just read this book by a guy named Siyes Lewis, or something like that. Alright, I really just skimmed it. The point is, it gave me some great ideas for a movie" "Look, Lewis spends way too much time with the Pevensies once they get to Narnia. This movie is not about the Pevensies. I'll have them immediately find Cair Paravel, immediately recognize it as Cair Paravel, immediately rescue the dwarf (whatever-his-name-is) and leave Cair Paravel, and almost immediately get to Aslan's How. That way I can spend more time with the central characters, the Telmarines, who Lewis barely even thinks to mention during this time. Plus, I really need to develop the Telmarines for the viewers since I cut out the whole beginning of the book where Lewis did that." If Andrewson feels no ethical constraint to respect the integrity of another artist's work, you would think he would at least be bright enough to realize that the easiest way to make a brilliant movie is to stick as closely as possible to the brilliant book. That's what Peter Jackson did with Tolkien's Lord of the Rings, and it worked out okay for him.
__label__1 I was completely disappointed with the movie. I've read Prince Caspian numerous times. The movie was terrible. It fundamentally changed many of the important characters. Aslan, the key character of the book, was emasculated. Peter, originally portrayed as true to Aslan throughout the story came across as a spoiled teenager. The scene in which the White Witch is nearly called back was terrible as well. In the book, neither Caspian nor Peter were tempted to bring her back. The invented romance between Caspian and Susan was awful as well. Don't waste the money on the movie. Buy the book, or get the Focus on the Family Radio Theatre version of Prince Caspian (and the rest of the Chronicles of Narnia).
__label__1 According to the Wikipedia article, the directors decided to take "Caspian" in a darker direction -- and boy howdy, did they succeed! C.S. Lewis's "Prince Caspian" was a bright and cheering children's book; Andrew Adamson's "Caspian" is a morally ambiguous soap opera filled with horrific battle scenes. Lewis centered "Caspian" around the children's trek to Aslan's How, on which Lucy, then Edmund, Peter, and finally Susan begin to see Aslan ahead of them on the trail; but this central scene is only alluded to in the movie with a couple of lines of bad dialogue. The next most important scene, the "Romp" with Aslan, is left out entirely, in favor of a bloody battle at Miraz's castle made up by the director.This isn't like the first movie, in which they screwed up the theology. "Caspian" presents no theological interest at all. Aslan never appears until the very end, and is presented basically as a "tame lion" (he doesn't even shake Trumpkin!). Trumpkin's atheism is played down so far as to be nonexistent; his dialogue implies that he accepts the reality of Aslan from the beginning. While Caspian does reject Nikabrik's evil scheme (the director couldn't very well cut this third critical scene, given that it provided Tilda Swinton's only chance for a cameo), you'll notice that Caspian's army is still full of Minotaurs and Wolves, and early on one character (Trumpkin?) asserts that "the enemy of my enemy is my friend" without being rebuked by the children. (Adamson seems to have had something of a minotaur fetish. The battle at the castle is full of lingering shots of dying minotaurs. Never mind that Minotaurs are evil Narnians, or that Lewis's book didn't even mention them.) Adamson adds a pointless and rather insulting "character flaw" for Peter (he's turned into a touchy brawler with a chip on his shoulder, whom the now-decent Edmund has to keep saving); Susan's grown-up girliness is communicated mainly by a pointless and rather insulting "romance" with Caspian. Edmund, on the other hand, is made out to be a decent guy, which is in keeping with Lewis's book --- perhaps too decent, since the writers give all his catty comments to the others, making even Lucy seem a bit of a prig. (Peter: "can't keep a map in their heads". Lucy: "our Dear Little Friend".) Yes, the D.L.F. is alluded to in one brief exchange, then promptly forgotten again. Speaking of lost opportunities for comic relief, the Bulgy Bears have disappeared --- is this really a Disney film? The only belly laugh in the movie (albeit totally unintended) is the first bit of Reepicheep's death scene, when the mice's bagpipe music had everyone next to me anxiously checking their cell phones.Oh yeah, and for some reason all the Telmarines (even Caspian himself) speak with thick spaghetti-Western accents, rendering half their lines unintelligible to an American audience. Luckily, they're usually just talking politics, or engaging in bedside Mexican standoffs ripped from the latest telenovela.Zero stars (out of five) for the worst adaptation since Tim Burton's "Planet of the Apes". See it if you must, but in the words of Dave Chappelle, "Better not bring your kids!" There's nothing in this mess for them.
__label__1 I blissfully sat down in my carefully chosen seat placed in the center of the screen at eye level and began rocking my chair in anxious anticipation. I had told myself I would never watch another Chronicles of Narnia movie made by Walden Media after the butchering of the Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe, which stripped the storyline of the book down to a skeleton and then plastered modern themes and jokes back on, creating a Frankenstonian monster perfectly happy to leave C.S. Lewis fans screaming in horror. But I thought that just maybe they had a change of heart after the first movie got such bad reviews and how many people (that I know anyway) hated it. Even a friend of mine who never read the books admitted that the BBC versions (which follow as much of the storyline as possible almost word for word with their limited technology) were better than the new films. There was so much potential after all if the BBC versions could get so amazingly close. I should have blissfully left the theater right then in my ignorance of what was to come, but that's the problem with ignorance. You don't realize when you're about to stumble upon something that will shatter your bliss. Within the first few minutes of the movie Caspian unloads his lungs into Susan's microscopically designed horn. For you readers who know the storyline, he hadn't even made it into the hut with Trufflehunter, Nickabrick, and Trumpkin yet. He falls off his horse, sees good old Nickabrick and, digging deep into his guts for bravery, snatches up the horn and does his thing as if thinking, "Oh s***! It's a midget with a sword half the length of my pinky! I need help NOW!!!" That's the kind of courage I want my kids to see when they're growing up.Needless to say because of the premature honkingthey cut the part where he gets introduced to the creatures such as Glenstorm and the three bears and the fauns and the little squirrel which they pathetically try to throw in later. They also cut the battle Prince Caspian fights ON HIS OWN BECAUSE HE ACTUALLY HAS A PAIR AND DOESN'T FAINT AT THE THOUGHT OF MIDGET MEN WITH NEEDLES! I wanted to see the fightI wanted to see the Giant screw up and make the Narnians get demolished. NOOOO, the writers have a better idea. Lets replace the blame on Peter because he's only the freakin' high king of Narnia who everyone looks up to and compares other kings to (although you'd never know why the &%$@ he's thought of so highly the way he's always screwing up and getting scolded by the Prim Dona Susan for not taking care of siblings or, in this case, getting his entire army massacred in a battle that never should have existed.) Peter was a heronot the scapegoat that he is in these movies.This next fact should be so obviously horrifying that I'm not sure I can even write an entire paragraph explaining my frustration unless I speak at the level of kindergartners. Aslan was basically nonexistent. He appeared in what? Three scenes at the most??? Four if you count the short dream sequence that, oh wait, SHOULDN'T HAVE BEEN A SHORT DREAM BUT A GOOD TALK BETWEEN ASLAN AND LUCY! WTF are these writers on? Crack? And oh yeah what happened to the entire part where Lucy and Susan stay with Aslan during the battle and wake up the trees with him and meet Bacchus and other such dancing people?oh right they had to ride back to find him because they went off to war with Peter and Edmund. What ever happened to the idea of "wars are nasty affairs when girls are involved?" It must have been overturned somewhere because Susan (in her best imitation of the Elves from Lord of the Rings) was down in the battle showing more gumption, skill, and balls than anything which might have even flickered in the eyes of Prince Caspian. Caspian's entire manhood was thrown into question so bad that the writers must have decided that the kiss between Susan and Caspian at the end was necessary, if not for the simple act of modernization, then to assure the audience that Caspian was, in fact, not gay.If the Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe was turned into a Frankenstein of the original story, Prince Caspian was turned into an Ameba of the original story. After prince Caspian tooted his horn, the skeleton itself disappeared leaving a spineless story attempting to morph into something simply bearable to watch without causing me to burst into tears over the latest victim of C.S. Lewis' stories to Hollywood and the modern culture perfectly happy to accept it.
__label__1 Well, I just saw this last night. Basically, from the previews of the movie I knew I would not like it and knew it had just about nothing to do with the book. I only went because my husband wanted me to. I was right. The thing that made me most mad, was that as usual, Hollywood will NOT make a movie without throwing some sort of sex or romance into it, even if there were NO signs of it in the books. They've got a 26 year old playing a character that is supposed to be about 11-13. Obviously, they've changed him into a character of about 17-19, and had him "yearning" for Queen Susan, and of course she kisses him in the end. That's Hollywood for ya. If she had done that in the book, she would have SOOOOO been a "child molester", because he's just a little boy in the story. That was just the biggest horrible part. The rest of the movie, well, maybe 10% of it followed the story of the book. The other 90% was totally not there. From what I saw, I'm really quite surprised that they kept the main characters' NAMES the same! This is just really NOT a good one for any of the book's fans to see if they're hoping for a good film version of the book.
__label__1 Have movies become so bad these days that a merely well-executed totally formulaic film, like "The Avengers," is heralded as an exceptional film?Sure, this film hits all the marks and has some good one-liners, but once we expected films to be refreshing and new. "Star Wars," while having obvious flaws, provided us a totally new universe with its own unique political conflicts, worlds, and even its own theology (the force). Its first twenty-minutes is mostly watching the story of a robotic English dandy (C3-P0) argue with a chirping rolling trashcan (R2-D2), but amazingly enough Lucas made that unique and crazy idea entertaining. The plot of "The Avengers" is just your run-of-the-mill comic book story-line. Compare its plot to that of "Inception" or "The Matrix" or even "Back to the Future" or "The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly." Much of what makes those films so great is that their plots are highly innovative. You have no idea where they are going. You always know exactly where "The Avengers" is going. Along these same lines, "Psycho," "The Empire Strikes Back," "The Matrix," etc. provide classic twists--Norman has gone insane and has, in his mind, become his mother, the film's apparent killer; Darth Vader, the film's main villain, is revealed to be Luke's father; the first half of "The Matrix" turns out to have transpired in a totally false reality. Nobody expected these twists. What unexpected occurs in "The Avengers"? Even its minor twists have appeared in other recent films. Its most significant--Loki allowing his own capture--comes straight from "The Dark Knight."Gangster films before "The Godfather" were just pulp. "The Godfather" transcended the genre just as "Unforgiven" did with Westerns. The same is true about "The Dark Knight." "The Avengers" doesn't transcend; it regurgitates a done-to-death plot. Unlike "The Avengers," "The Dark Knight" was more than a comic book film. It was entertaining, compelling, yet it explored complex moral ideas, and its plot went in innovative directions. Did anyone know that "The Dark Knight" would end not with a fistfight but instead with a battle between the Joker and Batman for Harvey Dent's soul, a scene that leaves it open to interpretation whether the Joker or Batman really won in the end, a scene far more compelling than any sequence of destruction could ever be? And did anyone NOT know that "The Avengers" would end with a huge battle with the Avengers ultimately triumphant? Uncertainty about how a plot will be resolved is what once kept the audience hooked, not the continual spectacle of fights and explosions. In fact, look at the IMDb Top 250. With how many of these films would you know exactly how they'd end if you were seeing them for the first time? In fact, apart from the cartoons, is there a single entry as totally formulaic as "The Avengers" is? And let's not forget, did you ever worry that any of the Avengers would not survive? If not, then where was the real dramatic tension? One of the things that made "The Dark Knight" so compelling is that one of its two heroes not only dies but is also believably turned evil before he is killed. And did anyone expect what happened to Rachel Dawes, Harvey Dent's girlfriend? One of the things that made "Psycho" so dramatic is its main protagonist dies halfway through the film. Great films--serious or fun--must make the audience feel that there is something truly at stake. And do I even have to go into how voting to give "The Avengers" a 10 places it on par with the all-time great works of film art--"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," "Schindler's List," "Taxi Driver," "Apocalypse Now," "Citizen Kane", "Vertigo," "Crimes and Misdemeanors," "8 1/2," "Manhattan," "Cinema Paradiso" etc.? A vote of 10 for a film like this diminishes the worth of these works of art that explore the deepest issues concerning the human condition.Though I've brought up some films that are darker than "The Avengers" or more serious, that is not my complaint about "The Avengers" at all. "Star Wars, " "The Empire Strikes Back," "Back to the Future," "The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly" were fun movies, but they also had plots that went in unexpected directions, had surprising twists, introduced us to unique characters. The elements I've listed here are what make a film exceptional and deserving of an incredibly high rating. Just a well-done totally formulaic movie like "The Avengers" simply does not deserve the praise it is getting. Of course this film does not deserve a 1 out of 10. I would really give it 3 or maybe 3 1/2 out of 5 stars, which is equivalent to a 6 or 7 out of 10 on the IMDb rating scale. However, until others don't alter their votes to put "The Avengers" more in line with where it should be in comparison to other great entertaining films of history, my vote will remain a 1. Go watch "The Avengers" a few more times. Once you've gotten used to the 3-D, the special effects, the digital surround sound, you'll see that the film is predictable, the jokes are so-so, and the violence of the fights and of the long climactic end battle actually gets kind of boring.If you're a teenager still reading comics or a lover of comic books who's always dreamed of watching Hulk fight Thor, Thor fight Iron Man, then this movie is what you've always been waiting for, but for the rest of us, "The Avengers" is not the tour de force it's been made out to be. Oh wait a sec. I just learned that there's a movie based on "Battleship"--you know, that dull board game for eight-year-olds. I guess movies really are that bad. If you compare "The Avengers" only to garbage like that, I guess it really does seem great.Never mind...
__label__1 There is no way this is legit 8.8. The movie is comparable to Transformers 3.(Rated a 6).Look I loved the following recent action hero movies. Spiderman (1-3), Dark Knight, Super 8, Iron Man(1-2), Transformers(1-2)I really don't dislike that many movies. I'm not being cynical. This movie really is just a cluster ..... There's no emotion to the whole thing. Its dull and flat. It also feels very "PG"Its the definition of cliché when it comes to super hero movies. There's no bar being raised, there is nothing new being done. The entire script is just a bunch of predictable non sense jargon with no meaning. There's no event in the movie where i go wow, that is original. Or go wow this movie gives me emotion and it really immerses me in the experience(Watch the beginning of star trek).My only thoughts is that Walt Disney Pictures did black hat tactics to hype this movie through social networks. I cannot and will not believe people think this movie is worth an 8.8.I really did want to walk out of the theater. This movie is forgettable and I was very disappointed and let down. This movie really just feels like another "average" super hero movie. But the expectation of it being good just makes it worse.
__label__1 Jack Sparrow, Barbossa and Mr. Gibbs are by far, the best combinations, they are the real comedians of this movie. I missed the rest of the Black Pearl's crew.Angélica doesn't show her role clearly and she has a pointless quest (save her father from death, who was predicted to be killed by one man that has a wood-leg ), somehow she could be lovely for some people and totally annoying for others.Blackbeard doesn't show his role also, he has a great first entrance and "that's it"....then he moves between being an evil man and a scared old man.The cleric and mermaid's love story is totally forgettable and bad acted by the cleric mainly.The real problem of this movie is the lack of detail explanations... the Blackbeard's sword seems to be an important item, but its origin was never described (this role was played in the anterior movies by Pintel and Ragetti, giving details over every mythic character or legends) the same fact with Blackbeard , the lost of the Barbossa's leg just has a couple of lines without any image showing the event, even in "racconto" mode.In general lines, the movie lacks of story and details.
__label__1 Oh, Dear, I love Johnny Depp and the PotC movie experience, but this one is best left out... So sorry I bothered... The characters were so lackluster, I did not care about any of them... But the script was so poor, how can you expect the actors to salvage it??? Ian McShane: wasted, Penelope Cruz: looked as if she was struggling with pregnancy discomfort, Mermaids and the religious man: put me to sleep and pure filler... Filmed way too dark which made it difficult to see my several glances at my watch to see when I could leave... Tedious in all the darkness... Depp is reported to have earned $55,000,000 with this and actually had script input.... Get new writers! I wanted so bad to see a good PotC movie after the last (Land's End) rubbish, but I was disappointed once again... Depp and Cruz had zero chemistry between them... It was not a 'love interest'.... They appeared to barely know each other... At least O Bloom and K Knightly looked like they had feelings for each other... I don't think Capt Jack even needs a 'love interest', he's a rogue out for adventure and pirate booty (Ok, that does not mean 'women'!). Cruz did nothing for me and could have been left out entirely....Where were the 'fun' characters that enhance the story? No laughs or even thrills... An incredible bore from start to finish.... I really, really wanted to like this movie, and I am easy to please, but I would have rather bought Lottery tickets for my money....I did not view it in 3D because I did not see how it would add anything.... The production costs were scaled back, but 3D adds a reported $30,000,000 to filming, so it was wasted money... Get a good script via a good story! The 3rd PotC movie was written virtually on the beach as it was being filmed, and it showed.... This version suffered from a bad storyline and no plot.... I'm afraid the best is now behind us, and the 'make it fast, bring in the money' attitude has taken over....I want another hilarious and unforgettable scene like the time Capt Jack appears walking onto the wharf as the boat he's on sinks into the depths... It still makes me smile every time I see it... Bring me that again....
__label__1 Jack Sparrow...I mean Captain Jack Sparrow, it's probably time to hang your boots and bury your sinking pirate career before dirt-storm wrecks whatever remains of my sweet memories of the original Jack Sparrow legend, the Curse of the Black Pearl. Although, I wasn't half as impressed with its sequels, somehow even in those movies the Pirate magic weaved its way into the hearts of loyal fans, many of whom I'm sure are as aggrieved and disappointed as I am, just choosing to remain silent out of respect and love for the Jack Sparrow we all knew and cared about. However it needs to be said, the current version achieves nothing apart from making you scratch your head in frustration. Someone here commented this was supposed to be better than at least its last two predecessors -bollocks. After all, who can forget the inspiring "Hoist the Colours" speech by Elizabeth in "At World's End", and that opening execution scene did it not send shivers down your spine? About this version, I don't recollect ONE memorable scene worth talking about. There's nothing, absolutely nothing inspirational or redeemable. Before watching this monstrous travesty of a pirate story, I read each and every review on IMDb and was confused whether or not to spend a lot of money on it. Finally I listened to my heart who cares about critics, being a loyal Pirate fan I knew at least Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush wouldn't disappoint. My, couldn't have been any wronger. In fact, I never felt so disappointed listening to my heart. With a straight face, I managed to sit through the entire screening, taking a while to realise how casually the sublime Pirate magic was fading away into an appalling doom of mediocrity, clichés and earthy innuendoes. Plot aside, everything about the movie was repetitive and easily predictive, "now comes the swordfight", "now comes the menacing Blackbeard", "the mermaid's about to bite". If they paid me a dollar for each correct guess, I'm sure I would have been rich by now. Even the soundtrack failed to strike a chord. About Jack Sparrow and Barbossa, I could notice a deep sense of fatigue in dialogue delivery with such fine actors despite the fact no one else can take their roles. Was it like let's just take our money and get over with this nonsense. About Blackbeard, impressive introduction but for the remaining film, I don't think that character could have scared a two year old in a dark room. Angelica, that Latina lover of Jack Sparrow, well she could have been a breath of fresh air but the character lacked depth and dimensions. Speaking of Latins, why did they make the Spaniard Kings and soldiers speak English? I've read a lot of history about Spain's naval prowess in the olden days, for greater authenticity couldn't they have made them speak Castilian Spanish with sub- titles in English. It's tiny details like these which make you angry about the lack of research in putting together such a fabled story. The "Fountain of Youth", again a great plot element but I wanted a genuine SENSE OF HISTORY with that like its legendary connections with Ancient Greeks and the lost kingdom of Atlantis. Again, deja vu remember how Barbossa made an introduction of those Gold nuggets in Curse of the Black Pearl, connecting them with Aztec civilisation and the Conquistadores led by Hernan Cortes. Now, that's called RESEARCH. The mermaids were neither beautiful nor significant enough. I think they should have casted blonde Russian chicks straight from Moscow and St.Petersburg for that look of vulnerability. The priest who fell in love with the mermaid was neither convincing in his religious fervour nor his romantic passion for the woman. VERDICT: Let this Pirate of the Caribbean storyline end now already, and not be resurrected until another 50-100 years!P.S.: In all fairness, I've seen far worse movies than POTC- On Stranger Tides. If it were simply another movie, I would have rated it a Three Point Five. But, since you have the legendary POTC appeal to bank upon, expectations will always be much higher, so you just can't afford to disappoint. Thus, there you are - One Star.
__label__1 I have enjoyed most of the other Pirates of the Caribbean movies, but decreasingly so. Now, it seems with 3D, you do not have to have a movie which has a story, just a bunch of fight scenes, people fighting to win a race to get to the fountain of youth.Mr Rush was the only enjoyable thing about the movie. I am disappointed J Depp would sink to this kind of rubbish. There is LITERALLY no story, so it is hard to comment about it, but it is Hollywood in a very bad state when crap like this gets churned out as an excuse for entertainment.Special effects and 3D does not excuse having no character development/theme/intrigue etc... there just was nothing there other than 3D and FX trying to puff itself up into a worthwhile entity. MASSIVE FAIL.
__label__1 Just be entertaining. But, you couldn't even do that could you Pirates4. Oh well, you'll be too busy counting your money to care anyway, wont you. Nice job marketing department. I went into this with the idea that they were going to strip it down a bit, compared to the last two, and maybe reel in the silliness a bit. It looked like they did try to do that, but they forgot to insert anything to take the silliness's place. The acting, except for Stephen Graham (he was good so his role functioned well), was RIDICULOUSLY bad. Johnny Depp was as idiotic, if not more, in his attempt to portray a character than ever. And his character was as inconsistent throughout the movie as ever. There is no definition of character in Jack Sparrow. It's just a matter of catering to the audience scene by scene. Jack Sparrow isn't a multifaceted man (manly, funny, romantic, etc.) he is just a plot device used by over-payed scared writers to illicit whatever response from the audience that their research has proved will entire people to continue paying for this product. Penelope Cruz's character, was never anything more than just Penelope Cruz reading cue cards looking hot trying to exude sex appeal to entire male viewers. Neither she nor Depp ever looked like they felt what they were saying or ever actually became their character. Ian McShane was also just going through motions. Stephen Graham though somehow managed to understand his character and he disappeared into it, adding something to it. Kudos to him. He must have ignored the director and just went on instinct. I liked Thor a lot because it entertained me. Pirates4 didn't. It was predictable and not funny. Instead of being a convincing charade it was a transparent one. The audience I was with wasn't laughing much either. This movie is a waste of time and I'm betting the great reviews it's gotten on IMDb are paid for written by plants. Hopefully it's another 2 years at least before the Pirates of the Caribbean machine begins casting it's misleading spell over the world with it's slick, sophisticated, tricky, deceptive advertising methods that lead people to believe the product is more than it is. The marketing for THIS piece of junk was great at concealing just how empty and pointless this film is. Every aspect of this movie, every scene of it is designed only to cater to the audience. No vision other than cashing in.
__label__1 We loved parts I and II and it was enough. Right now we will not watch them anymore. Part III killed all our love. If you cannot make a good part III do not do it at all. We were in anticipation to see a great entertaining show... Man in Black!!! IMAX 3D!!! It turns to be extremely boring! Dialogs about nothing. Repulsive looking fortune teller in an idiotic baby cap and etc. Just waste of time and money. Best part is funny speech on the alien language of the agent O and the first scene with security staff in the Canaveral Space Center. My dad asked: How come all these great actors agreed to play in such a bad movie? My dad thought that actors can choose what to play in the US. We are done with Spielberg and director Barry Sonnenfeld.
__label__1 The only excuse I can think that the writers can put out for this fail, is that it's hard to have expectations for sequels. Bad excuse, I was very disappointed with this movie. I very much support speranzadaniel's review, this movie sucked.*** Contains spoilers ** The plot is extremely Hollywood typical, it's poorly put together. J (W.Smith) has to jump back in time (do a Back to the future trick) and save K (Tommy Lee Jones) from inevitable death. The actors are not performing very well, and what is with all the staring and lingering of these people, you could squeeze a full movie in between all these sighs. As a typical Hollywood plot, the movie progresses, J manages to fulfill his mission, with a huge dose of cliché and arguments against K (played by Josh Brolin) in the future .I liked Brolin in no country for old men, but in this movie he doesn't really deliver, to be honest I don't feel like anyone of the actors are. As a Jemaine Clement fan from Flight of the Conchords, but not very positively surprised.Too bad you can't post negative votes here, this one definitively deserves it.
__label__1 Didn't enjoy this one bit. Very middle of the road with not enough aliens and effects in it for my liking very dull I couldn't even begin to imagine what the 3d version must've played out like there weren't many scenes that I thought 3d would come into play. Give this a miss and wait for the DVD - waste of time and money 1 out of 10. I think men in blacks time has ran its coarse. Will smith wasn't stretched at all in this film he is a lot more talented than what this film allows and he should turn down any follow up to this franchise even though he won't ! Probably should have gone seen Prometheus instead. This is as far away from men in black 1 as you can get. Rubbish.
__label__1 I should begin by saying that I am a big fan of Tolkiens work, and have read LOTR and The Hobbit (and his other books) many times. I did enjoy the first trilogy, and thought that the changes Jackson did to the story were sometimes understandable, sometimes acceptable. However, I have no idea what happened with this movie and the whole second trilogy. I am terribly disappointed, and I have no idea whether the changes were necessary simply to milk as much money as possible out of the whole project (spreading out the story to get 3 long movies, even if that meant adding many new things), or whether Jackson actually thinks he knows better than Tolkien... knows better how to explain things, how to connect the Hobbit to LOTR, or how to make a compelling story. And yes, an adaption doesn't HAVE to be close to the book. However, if you mess with the story, if you include things that contradict the whole story, and if you essentially kill off the charm and warmth and concept of the book the movie is based on, things get dangerous.The Hobbit was a book written for children, and while there are scenes in the trilogy that will definitely be fun for children (the dwarfs offering a lot of those kinda scenes), the violence and amount of killing and cut off heads make me wonder how suitable the movie really is. However, watching this movie, and having seen the previous ones, these questions came up in my mind:Is it really FORBIDDEN to make a movie that Doesn't have a love-story involved? Isn't the Hobbit legendary enough, hasn't the book proved often enough it is a great story without a love-story included? Why did Jackson have to create Tauriel, the female ninja-elf and her love-story with a DWARF? Why did this have to be added? Would the film would have so much more terrible (hard to imagine) without a cliché and badly-written love-story that was added by Jackson and Walsh? - I sincerely think that, if the elvish race is capable of doing the things Tauriel and Legolas do in battle, not only could the small group of elven warriors Jackson added to the battle of Helms Deep in Two Towers have totally defeated the orcish army in less than 2 minutes... the history of Middle-Earth would be very difficult if they all could fight even remotely as well. Also, the fighting skills of Legolas in this movie are totally inconsistent to what he was able to do later on in LOTR. Considering that elves live incredibly long, the amount of time that passed between the Hobbit and Lotr is no explanation of why Legolas is a walking "ninja-god" in the Hobbit and much less superman-like in LOTR. - The incredible length of the scenes... it sincerely feels like the movie team was paid by the minutes of film they produced - The worms... I reckon they are based on a small comment by Bilbo, mentioning "were-worms" (a comment that has often riddled Tolkien-fans). Is this an attempt to somehow win over the fans of Tolkien-lore that feel insulted by Tauriel, the changes to the story, the goats, rabbits and deer-mounts, the fact that the WONDERFUL scene of Beorn appearing at the battle in the book and turning the tide, bringing relief and a change to the battle was kinda removed because the ninja-elves prove that Middle-Earth is located in the Matrix? - I really would feel bad for JRR Tolkien if he was able to watch these movies. He felt so much love for the world and characters he created, and put so much time, effort and feelings into his work. All this now was steamrolled over by the production team of this movie. After the rather respectful handling of LOTR, Jackson changed so much about the Hobbit that it feels totally disrespectful to the lifetime of work Tolkien put into his stories. What went wrong? Did Jackson think that, in order to attract and convince all those that haven't read the books, he would need to turn a wonderful book, written for children with a lot of warmth and charm, into a medieval Transformers (regarding amount of CGI, length of fights, lack of realism, character depth and taste)? Did he really think this was in any way a respectful adaption of the work of a man who invested DECADES into writing, refining and perfecting his stories? Who, instead of focusing on just hours of battle, managed to create a world full of lore, charm, and wonderful characters?I have no idea what went wrong behind the scenes. Have no idea whether the movie studio said "Jackson, forget about what people love about the Hobbit. Turn it into three overlong movies for more profit, get us as many battles and skirmishes as you possibly can milk out of this, and just to make sure, add a love-story (we don't care how you do it), add a popular character from the previous trilogy so people will dig that. Oh yeah, the book was written for children, so make sure there is a song or two, bird poo on the nutty wizard who escaped from Hogwarts (Radagast), a dwarf with a pickax stuck in his skull, and funny bits that children love. But don't forget we want adults to watch it too, so please, add tons of action and cut-off heads, too... gotta hit all those demographics". I know a lot of Tolkien-fans apparently love this movie and the trilogy. One review even said "...from a true fan". Please don't think this is the case in general. I have grown up reading Tolkiens work, and I am simply stunned by how bad, how tasteless and disrespectful this trilogy is.
__label__1 I was as irritated as most people when I heard that Peter Jackson would split The Hobbit into three movies because it was obviously a decision based on nothing more than getting as much money as possible, but even I never imagined that he would stoop to making a movie like Battle of the Five Armies (a.k.a. Battle of the 25 Armies plus a couple of random giant mountain goats and a pig thrown in for good measure).The CGI was as bad as something you would see in a B movie—even worse than the previous two Hobbit films. But even more noticeably, the script took a dive to rock bottom. Within the first half hour, such utterly laughable clichés as "You make me feel alive," were spoken in a cheesy love scene that seemed like something straight out of Saturday Night Live, except that the audience was apparently supposed to take it seriously.Shortly before the battle started, there were a few much-needed moments of comic relief, and I thought the film might possibly turn around. But all my illusions were soon shattered during the ten-minute scene where Thorin walks on top of the ice that Azog is floating under with his eyes open, following the orc and apparently waiting for him to break through it, when—surprise!—he does, and (spoiler for those who have not yet watched the ten-minute scene that made this obvious) kills Thorin. Alas. It might have been sad if I hadn't been waiting around for ten minutes knowing that he would get killed.Things were looking grim for the dwarfs when who should appear? Our heroes the eagles, of course, who have managed to bail out the protagonists in every single movie of the trilogy.Although I couldn't stop laughing during the scene where three dwarfs find completely random giant mountain goats with no riders in the middle of the battle and proceed to ride them up a mountain, the worst part of the movie was easily the ending. As if the movie isn't long enough, the audience is not only forced to watch Bilbo go all the way BACK to the Shire, they have to re-watch footage from Fellowship of the Ring! I knew it was a bad sign that Peter Jackson actually made a movie shorter than three hours (although it felt like six)—apparently, he had so little material for this movie that he had to re-use material from his original trilogy.When Tauriel discusses love with the abominably clichéd line "Why does it hurt so much?" I think she described the feelings of most of the audience enduring the latest Hobbit movie.
__label__1 As a fan of the books first and the movies second I have willingly celebrated the achievement of Peter Jackson and his team for bringing this wonderful world to the screens.Sadly on this occasion I cant feel quite so enthusiastic. Without a shadow of a doubt this is the worst blockbuster movie I have ever seen. The excitement of waking up to the day having finally arrived to have one last cinema experience in Middle-Earth was soon turning into cinema nightmares.A direction less mess from start to finish that only got worse as this movie went on, from the opening sequences of Smaug having his revenge on Lake-Town and Bard using his son as a make shift aim for his bow this simply descended into a ridiculous aimless shambles. Our beloved Mr Bilbo Baggin's reduced to a secondary character of no weight or meaning was soon a small quibble compared to the elf- centric nonsense which ensued. Riding bats was bad enough before the ultimate insult of Legolas using a sword as a sort of remote control to crash a troll type enemy into a tower which becomes the setting for quite simply the worst piece of cinema ever used.I could go on for ever, this films redeeming feature is that it ended. Christopher Tolkien was quoted saying that these movies had reduced the beauty and aesthetic of his fathers work to nothing and it had been absorbed into the absurdity of our time, and I believed he was wrong as he was talking about Lord of the Rings but his words are fitting for this monstrosity of overblown Hollywood Esq movie making.I am certain that action fans think this is a fitting end to this adventure but as a fan of the books and the previous films I for one am offended by what was put in front of me. The beauty, emotion and heart of this wonderful story of a Hobbit that had an adventure was taken and ripped to pieces by terrible movie making.A sad end for all the wrong reasons.
__label__1 If you haven't read The Hobbit and/or if you like the first two movies: I envy you of sorts... If someone had told me some years ago that I would consider walking out from a Tolkien movie opening night, I would have slapped them with a cod. Or a salmon. The Hobbit trilogy is crap.It's little more than a long list of invented battles and love stories to attract a widest possible audience, as well as loads of idiotic storyline to make the story slide into the Lord of the Rings movies as smooth as an Elven ass. I understand that some adaption is required from book to screen, but when dealing with a book more or less only surpassed by the Bible and the IKEA catalogue, one should tread carefully.Do yourself a favor. Read the book. Let your mind be the big screen.
__label__1 How a wonderful book for children became a movie full of noise and void... Poor Bilbo... I felt sad all the time during this last movie, as bad as its predecessor. Unnecessary characters (why Tauriel, why ?!), ridiculous monsters, absurd scenes (Legolas jumping from crumbling stones to crumbling stones), fake sets, loud and empty music, there is nothing to save this movie. Where is the magic of The Lord of the Ring, where the Middle Earth looked so real ? Where is Tolkien's spirit ? Why Peter Jackson could betrayed so much Bilbo ? I sincerely hope that he will do much better in his future projects ; let's forget this trilogy...
__label__1 I despise Desolation of Smaug, so I can assure you I went in with minuscule expectations. Even those were shattered. I have disregarded the book in this review, because the book was ruined back in Desolation of Smaug. I watched this as a movie, ignoring everything I knew about how it was meant to go. Picking up exactly where Desolation left off, Smaug comes to his fiery end within ten minutes of the film's beginning, which only serves to highlight the terrible decision to split the film into three and to make the cuts where they did. We then spend roughly forty minutes waiting for the infamous 45 minute battle scene to begin, and then plead for it to end. Unlike the gripping, tense and endlessly entertaining battle sequences in LOTR, these CGI-heavy storms contained no sense of danger or drama. The laws of physics are suspended to the point where most people in the audience were laughing, and the hideous and unexplained fan service gives the impression that the film was directed by a 11 year old boy with some magic markers. Once again the screenwriters run out of Tolkein to fill 2 and a half hours, so invent their own, and the result is cringe-worthy dialogue about love. At the film's conclusion, barely any character is given any resolution save for Legolas (who doesn't appear in the book at all) and to a degree Bilbo himself. Martin Freeman performs well as Bilbo, nailing nearly every scene he is in. However, nearly every big name actor in the film collects around 2 minutes of screen time (everyone from Blanchett to Connelly) and most of them feel as if they are going through the motions. Blanchett in particular is given a particularly cringe-worthy part and I hope she was paid well. An unrecognisable and CGI-heavy Billy Connelly gives probably the least inspired performance in the film as Dain, whose role is so heavily reduced that it probably doesn't matter. Ryan Gage's Alfrid is so painfully unnecessary and uninspired that he brings down the movie in every scene he appears. Each of the film's deaths is anti-climactic and changed for the worse. The Lord of the Rings trilogy features some of the best cinematic deaths ever - Boromir, Theoden, The Witch-King, the Cave Troll, the Balrog/Gandalf. None of these fare even close.Most unforgivingly, the film pathetically pretends to be Lord of the Rings. We first see hints of it when Saruman, Galadriel and Elrond storm into Dol Goldur and Galadriel reprises her role as Green Witch from Fellowship, but it becomes far more blatant later on. BOFA blatantly steals the LOTR Oscar-winning score, it recreates key scenes from Two Towers but replaces the terrifying Uruk-hai with generic CGI white orcs, it sends Legolas off to find Aragorn (which makes no sense) and the final scene is literally taken word for word from the Fellowship of the Ring.In Conclusion, please AVOID this film if you have an appreciation for film, Tolkein books, the laws of physics or practical effects. Watch only if you want a demonstration of CGI excess, a Martin Freeman performance (which you can find elsewhere) or are a prisoner whose only escape is by watching this film. Otherwise, please just watch the Lord of the Rings instead.
__label__1 This is one of the worst movies I ever seen. Yes, the former was a cliché phrase, but it goes very well with a movie full of them.*** SPOILERS ***First of all, who the hell is Tauriel? Where in all the Tolkien mithos is that unnecessary character? And why Tauriel gets more screen time than Bilbo? Damn, Jackson! Second, the extreme overuse of (bad) CGI. Sometimes seems that the orcs are just a mediocre 3D model with a poor AI in a bad video game. Sometimes they seems to have been copied and pasted by the hundreds. Where are the details, Peter? Third: the plot is simply awful. There is a lot of clichés, stupid Matrix-like action scenes and, worst of all, the forced love story between Kili and Tauriel. Again, who the hell is Tauriel? Fourth: Where is Beorn in this movie? One of the main characters in the book gives here fifteen seconds and no more, while "Tauriel" gives hours.Fifth: What happened with the treasure, with all the gold? What happened with the people at the lake? Sixth: the goats. Why? The PIG. Can you believe it? A damn PIG in the middle of the battle.*** END OF SPOILERS ***I can write hours and hours about how awful this movie is. Even when I watch it keeping in mind that this isn't an accurate adaptation. But you have the idea.My advice? Don't waste your money. Read the book. Again if necessary.
__label__1 In this film you will see: Animated fights containing dwarfs. Animated fights containing elves. Animating fights containing humans. Animated fights containing orcs. Superlarge animated worms which digs through unnoticeable through the ground. Characters you don't care about dieing. Plot devices everywhere. Eagles saving the day... once more... for no reason. Animated animations doing animated things. Legolas breaking even more laws of physics (seriously, that dude must be a god or something.. He jumps like... 30 meter, onto a giant troll which is about 7 meters tall, sticks a knife in his brain, mindcontrols him to knock down a tower which later on becomes a bridge which he will fight another giant orc which will almost die like 123 times and then at the end die once and for all.... lol jk he survived but noes, now he did die and lol we're happy ohno he survived anyway OK now legolas killed him). A love story which feels awfully forced and pointless (srsly... who cares???). Countless forced references to lord of the rings (also sersly... we get it... the hobbit is a prequel, okay, let it go.).And lots more. I can go on forever. This film was awful, i feel cheated in so many ways.
__label__1 The third part of the trilogy (?!) is by far the worst ever movie inspired, if inspire is the word to be used in any relation to this movie, by a Talkien book. If Peter did it for money - I understand. I hope he is happy for taking the money from people earning 250 EUR per month in my country, and that is with the story which is about how gold eventually corrupts everything. In a way, he proved the point, didn't he?But, if Peter truly believes that THIS was the Hobbit, than something is seriously wrong with his reading and directing skills. Hollywood at its worst, 144 minutes of violence based on anti-war children book. Could there be a bigger nonsense than this?!Fortunatelly, this gives an opportunity for someone to make a good Hobbit movie soon.
__label__1 No one involved with this movie cared about making a good movie. Because they don't need to. The Spiderman movies will make money no matter good or bad they are. But that doesn't mean they should not try to. Why did this movie get made? Simple, Sam Raimi wasn't given enough time to make a fourth spider-man film so he quit, and the fans wanted to see the lizard on screen. This movie wasn't made for any other reason.First off, Peter Parker doesn't have a goal in this movie. At first its to find out what happened to his parents, which isn't explained in this movie. After half an hour he now tries to control his new powers, in scenes that don't help the audience. In the original spider-man, Peter learned about his powers in a controlled environment, he didn't beat up innocent people on a subway train. It's nice to know no one on that train reported that a man beat up five people while climbing walls. But Peter learning his powers can't be an entire focus in the movie, so we kill Uncle Ben. This time it doesn't work because the only reason Peter let the criminal get away was because Peter couldn't get a chocolate milk. To get so upset that he couldn't afford a chocolate milk that he would let a robber get away with the stores money is a contrivance in every way. So for about ten minutes Peters new goal is to bring uncle Ben's murderer to justice, let the police can't link all these look alike criminals spider-man does capture with the man who did kill peters uncle. After a while he just stops doing this, with no reason! And there is still about an hour left, so what are we going to do now? How about introduce that main villain you've been promising us? The Lizard is horribly written in every scene he's in. Why does he go to so much trouble to knock cars off of a bridge just to tell one guy (who is never seen afterwords) that their vaccine isn't ready yet? Because we needed another action scene. After that they bring up that the daily bugle wants pictures of the lizard, a point that doesn't amount to anything, except the lizard finding out who spider-man is. For someone as smart as Peter Parker has been set up to be it was really stupid for him to put his name on the camera he was using to take pictures of the lizard.The climax doesn't work for 2 reasons. The first being this is the same climax we've seen in about four other superhero movies. The second one being there are no stakes. Only half of Manhattan would be infected 8 minutes after the lizard started his chemical missile, decreasing the people at risk greatly. Also THERE'S A CURE FOR THIS!! You know, the thing Gwen has been working on for the past 6 minutes? Whoever gets infected can just get the cure shot into them afterwords, and as of right now there are only 10 people infected, so why waster your time trying to put the cure into the missile that will stretch half of Manhattan and only effect 10 people?! Gwen Stacy's dad dies and tells Peter to leave Gwen out of this, and proceeds to still date Gwen. What a great way to respect someone who died protecting people! Don't watch this movie, don't waste your time with this movie, even Spiderman 3 was better than this, so just watch the Sam Raimi trilogy, at least those movies had effort put into them.
__label__1 In one scene, right after a spider in the Oscorp Laboratories bites Peter Parker: he falls asleep in a subway only to be awakened by a random loser who (for some strange reason) places a beer bottle on Parker's head. A drop of water from the bottle rolls down onto Peter's face, causing him to fling to the top of the car and stick to the ceiling – like a spider.Over a dozen people witness this spectacular feat... and what happens next? A lady gets miffed because some of the beer spilled on her clothes. That particular reaction sums up how amazing the entire film is. After fully realizing his powers and using them to skateboard with furious bravado outside his high school, Peter Parker (much too) quickly dons the Spidey outfit that seems more like a surfer's wetsuit than a real transformation.He seeks his uncle's murderer from the supposedly pivotal scene lacking the tragic fate of the protagonist's mentor in Sam Raimi's version. This doesn't perpetuate Parker into a vengeful vigilante misusing his powers, but gives him reason to fly around wielding his skills that actor Andrew Garfield never seems in any particular awe about. The SOCIAL NETWORK star, resembling Anthony Perkins had he become a melancholy hipster, doesn't give Peter Parker the underdog value Tobey Maguire successfully conveyed – but that's the scripts fault. Parker's not a nerd or even an outcast; having lost his parents for mysterious reasons, he's simply not a happy camper.Other than the rushed changeling into the titular superhero, there's hardly any character arc for the good guy or the villain. Osco's resident genius Dr. Curt Conner's transforms into The Lizard so quick, running amok New York City like a raptor on steroids, there's not much reason, or worthy motivation, for his actions.But (all) this lack of purpose fits a movie that, when not wallowing in romantic melodrama between Parker and girlfriend Gwen Stacey whose dad is a hard-nosed cop and a weak replacement for a much-needed human antagonist like J. Jonah Jameson doesn't live up to the original film or the comic books that at least, for better or worse, had a good time.For More Reviews: www.cultfilmfreaks.com
__label__1 After the last film, I was hard pressed to think that this one could be worse. Well, sure enough it is.Warning, spoilers ahead.The reasons that this film isn't good are simple: Most of the action scenes, take place at night- and are visually uninteresting as the CGI and night sky don't make good bedfellows. There is one action scene at day in which you can actually see what's going on, and its in a high school that clearly isn't anywhere within a three mile radius of New York.We all understand how they shoot interiors in Culver City.. But the last spiderman films seamlessly blended shoots from Chicago, New York, Los Angeles without the audience ever noticing. This film does not, in fact the only attempt to make the high school look like New York is a lame sign.This film's story has been done before, you've seen it before and with the exception of the Osbournes and the color of the love interests hair, there is not much new to this story.Dennis Leary is great, as is Martin Sheen but they're both killed off. Martin Sheen is killed off in the beginning of this boring movie, making it more painful as he was one of the only reliefs.Aunt May is written so poorly, that she has nothing to do in this movie. She sits at home and watches TV and screams at Peter when she sees him. Not exactly a challenging role for the great Sally Field.There was little care that went into the quality of this film, and the attempts at making it dark are just flat out Corny such as the cannibal rat, which is pure comedy and comes out of nowhere to 'shock' the audience.There seems to be no conflict between Peter and his girlfriend at the end of the story, which one would logically want to assume that she holds out some contempt for spiderman as Harry did in the original spiderman after Spiderman played a hand in his death. Spiderman did play a hand in the Captain's death, yet the daughter doesn't seem to mind that Peter was there when he was murdered.This film had great visual effects, obscured by the night time setting and slow down camera techniques. Other than that, it's a music video and it pulls NO surprises. You have already seen this film if you've seen the extended trailer, or the 2002 Green Goblin movie.The chemistry between the two leads is lame, with Andrew Garfield who is wonderful in other films and stage productions giving a few moments of over-acting that take away Peter's humanity and spell the word HAM with it. Also, they appear to be improvising in some of their scenes, the result is two young, MEGA-RICH people trying to imagine what blue- collared kids from Queen's social customs would be like, and let me tell you they FAIL in a telling and Inauthentic way.This movie does not have you believe in the setting or characters at all. It is just ridiculous.
__label__1 This movie is a cash-in.First thing that occurred to me was that I previously saw everything worth watching in the movie's trailer.For example, note that Spidey's swinging scenes which are spread out in the trailer ended up being one scene in the movie (the crane scene)!Also,I didn't see ONE new bit of action in the movie that I hadn't already seen in the trailer and if I did,it was not a highlight.It really gets on my nerves when Hollywood manages to fool me with an impressive trailer that I am going to see a good movie, only to discover that it's far from that.It is more than obvious that everyone's eyes are on the Parker character, played by Garfield.I believe he did a decent job with what he was given and if at times there was some awkwardness with the character,it wasn't his fault.The bad thing is at some points I got a "Harry Potter" feeling by him.The rest of the cast did well,Stone was great and cute,Field and Sheen felt like cameo appearances just to help the film sell more(although happy to have seen them),Leary was very fitting to the role of captain Stacey and Ifans was sufficient as Connors(again he did nothing wrong,not his fault that his character was poorly developed). I also got a question here: would a half-arm person lift his sleeve up to the point where his rest arm is shown unless he is a beggar on the street? I think not.As for the Peter-Gwen romance,it was cute but I honestly think it never got deep emotionally.The movie also failed to explain to me why Gwen got attracted to Peter.The film is about Peter trying to find the truth about his parents. I honestly couldn't care less.And besides,there are only repeated references of that matter and no actual clues to follow,another cheat sponsored by the trailer.The rest of the film focuses on Peter getting bitten by the spider (since the movie is a reboot) and then on the lizard matter. Comparing with the original Spiderman(Sam Raimi's) at this point is inevitable. The question is raised: is there anything more they could possibly tweak/alter? Couldn't they stick to the comic plot at all? It's as if they are changing everything no matter what.The result was to go worse everywhere since the Raimi version did amazingly well with Spidey's story.Huge example is uncle Ben's death.What was that?No guilt was established for Peter as nobody in the audience would assume Peter was obliged to stop the thief and Ben's death had no actual impact on him,just a shallow crying scene over Ben lying on the sidewalk. Since they like to alter things so much, I say, let Ben live in this one flick!Connors is underdeveloped,so his motives are not clear,lizard wants to turn everybody like himself, although able to talk (with fantastic pronunciation!!!)and be sane.I don't get if there is a second persona or a crazy Connors behind the lizard,the film doesn't really explain and the scene where Connors hears the lizard talk to him only complicates things more.The director,in order to promote this film,boasted that this film uses very little cgi technology if any.That is a big lie.Not only there is extensive use of cgi, it's actually also very bad.I can't comment further on this matter as it is something one has to realize on his own.What gives it away is motion,colors are OK. Gravital issues also occur as the lizard sometimes appears to be really heavy(Hulk-Godzilla-like)and at other scenes he climbs and jumps like a feather. The only action scene I enjoyed in its entirety was the car thief scene. There is no cgi there as far as I'm concerned and it is a very enjoyable scene overall(Garfield's humorous lines help too).The flaw there is how the heck did so many police cars get there so quick!.At this point I want to comment about the suit.I really hate it.Had there not been the Spiderman mask,I would never recognize the man wearing this suit as Spiderman.Mechanical (-electrical?) web shooters are indifferent although faithful to the comics(let's give them that),but I think Raimi's idea of giving Peter organic web shooters was a real improvement.Like I said above, in this new film they did EVERYTHING differently.The scene when Peter tests the web shooters is far from realistic as he chose to fall off a skyscraper in order to do that!.One of my first thoughts was how many times had the director(Webb)taken me to Peter's school and Oscorp.Most of the film's scenes take place either at school or Oscorp.I find this unacceptable unless this is a television series or something. Furthermore,Webb never seemed to understand what is important or not in this film and I believe his whole approach to this project was false.Few examples:Peter Parker being a skateboarder (!) while a genius geek at the same time.There are more than enough scenes after Parker was bitten by the spider where his hands glue. Spider sense was not portrayed properly.I could literally go on forever.To conclude, there is no stigma,style,interesting shots, there is nothing.I don't know where this guy Webb came from and I haven't seen his other movie, but he did an amateur job.Take out the CGI and production money and you have yourself a fan-made film.Christopher Nolan did another take on Batman but you can see he can direct,and his movies are really "heavy",meaning important and professional.I fear for what's coming next for the Spiderman franchise.It is certain that I will avoid seeing the future amazing Spiderman films.The biggest problem is that they do no honor to Spiderman and tend to destroy him before the eyes of us fans.
__label__1 Robin Hood was an Outlaw in England. The idea that Robin Hood followed King Richard in the Crusades is from the Sean Connery movie "Robin and Marion". Robin and Marion was made in the cynical 1970's. Robin and Marion is not a movie that gets watched a lot (I wouldn't sit through it again) and it's theme didn't need to get expanded in to a two hour epic. The traditional Robin Hood takes place in England for it is the story of the British People Saxon's vs the Norman occupiers. Green is the symbolic color of the native people of Briton (e.g. Gawain and the Green Knight). The traditional Robin Hood of legend wore green for he is part of the pagan history of Briton, not some cynical inner city trendy who wears black. There is this idea that people in the past wore depressing clothing and were dirty all the time. Yet if you look at the paintings from the time of King Richard the first you will find that people wore bright colors. Only bums dress badly in any age.If Christian Bale, Cary Elwes, Jeremy Irons, Johnny Depp, Robert Downey Jr. or Kevin Kline had played the part of Robin Hood we could have expected a more extensive range of emotions and with a better English accent. But Crowe has a limited range of emotions. Emotionally Crowe only does the self-serving stuff very well, you know; angry, self pity, prolonged contempt etc. Crowe is also very good at being "intense" which accounts for his screen presents and is often mistaken for acting ability. But the emotions required to do "The Merry Adventures of Robin Hood" are way, way beyond him. Being jovial, generous, good natured, romantic or even nice are outside his ability.In the Errol Flynn version, Robin Hood is bested by Little John and comes up laughing at himself at having been beaten by another man. This sort of self-demeaning humor and good will are way off the chart for Crowe. Crowe doesn't do humble. The character of Robin Hood had to be retooled to be more like the Gladiator so that Crowe could play the part. So Robin Hood the cunning fox had to be changed to become Robin Longstrides the bossy grumpy bear.Crowe can't do love or Romance very well. In Gladiator they had to cut love scenes out of the script. Crowe can only really do 'intense needy love' or 'self-pity mercy love' but not Romantic Love. To make matters worse Crowe hasn't held onto his youthful good looks in the ten years he's been a star he's really aged badly. Tom Cruse has been a star for almost 30 years still has his looks. As does Brad Pitt. Kevin Beacon who has been in the business for almost 35 years still has his looks. But because Crowe has let himself go so badly the part of Maid Marion had to be drastically retooled as well. The first Maid Marion Sienna Miller was fired from the movie because she looked too young and thin next to the aging and hefty Crowe.The movie was shut down for two months and the part of Maid Marion was changed and rewritten to that of an older woman. Maid Marion became the Widow Marion (Cate Blanchett) and the romance became a marriage of convenience. Crowe can't do romance. Gone are the scenes where Errol Flynn and Olivia De Havillandand flirted playfully on screen. The unromantic Crowe doesn't flirt well and can't woo. His on screen romances have always been rewritten around this so that the woman does most of the work while he looks angry, confused and full of self-pity. In this case Crowe's Robin Hood doesn't really like Marion (anger) he's just doing a friend a favor by sharing her bed. It's hard to believe that Robin Hood spent 10 years in the army with surrounded by men and isn't attacked to Marion. But Crowe can't play "attracted" there's no self pity in it.
__label__1 God almighty! This Robin Hood is catastrophic, period. On top of that, the lack of humbleness reaches the unthinkable. I've heard Russell Crowe , the new Robin Hood, referring to Errol Flynn's version as crap. Crap? Can you imagine! Errol Flynn made that movie "The Adventures Of Robin Hood" in 1939 and people still watch it today, 77 years later, with utter delight. Russell Crowe's "Robin Hood" was made only 7 years ago and it's already forgotten. I was appalled by his comment and realized that Oscar winner or not, wisdom or knowledge is not part of the equation. I've heard Russell Crowe in a different interview saying he never trained as an actor. He claims he doesn't know anything about Stanislavski and more importantly, he doesn't care to know. What a message to send to the new generations.
__label__1 Okay, here is he awful truth:1. Apparently a Stone Mason wrote the Magna Carter (Robin's Father) 2. Although a humble archer, Robin within a matter of weeks becomes the King's right hand man in battle 3. Apparently in 13th century England, the French had 20th Century warefare technology 4. Apparently French soldiers can row their way across the channel in canoes and then jump out and fight(although earlier in the film the channel is so perilous that a big English boat barely makes it across and it took overnight to cross) 5. King John never signed the Magna Carter 6. Russell Crowe can do a number of English accents - unfortunately, he just couldn't choose one 7. Cate Blanchett is very good at channelling Katherine Hepburn 8. Apparently Marion is psychic because she recognises the man who killed her father-in-law in battle without having ever laid eyes on her 9. Marion although having worked on a farm in Nottingham for 10 years is a skilled soldier and killed wield an axe better than most of the French and British soldiers 10. Everyone in the town of Nottingham is so stupid that they don't realise that Robin is impersonating Robert of Loxley who is about 20 years his senior, blonde and looks nothing like Russell Crowe. Don't see it - it's not worth your coin. I'm so disappointed because I love Cate Blanchett and Crowe is usually very good. But this is just bad story telling.
__label__1 I really resent having to pay money to watch a second rate prequel.Didn't anyone from the studio see the final cut before release? What were they thinking about? Come on guys, a little historical research (even for a fantasy film like this) wouldn't have done any harm.This movie was a collection of nonsense from start to finish. OK, Robin Hood is a character from fiction and story tellers are at liberty to use this character as they wish but surely some historical context or realism are necessary to allow the suspension of belief? The French landing did not happen.Magna Carta is an important part of our history and should not be messed around like this.Don't get me started on the geographical screw-ups. Do the film makers have any idea how far it is from Nottingham to the South Coast? Or where the White Horse is? Idiots.But it is only a movie and I have been happy to sit through other films that have mangled history to a worse extent than this, so what was wrong? EVERYTHING! The script, the absence of plot, ludicrous casting, bizarre accents, poor lighting and cinematography, inaudible dialogue (thanks), unexplained background characters and hours and hours and hours of nothing happening all add up to a momentous car crash of a movie.Did I mention it was derivative? It stole the best parts of the Robin Hood legend, Saving Private Ryan, the Disney animated classic and Braveheart and wasted them.Do not waste your time on this or the inevitable sequel.
__label__1 To begin with, it sucked. Now let me tell you why.Once upon a time, an archer named Rusty was the most noble and educated archer in King Richard's army. So noble and educated, in fact, that when he pretends to be a knight, no one can even tell the difference. So this noble and educated Archer ends up gaining the trust of all the barons in England, and leads them (and the King, mind you) in an heroic assault upon the French. In fact, when the French surrender, they do not surrender to the King of England, but to the noble archer named Rusty. That is the sum total of the film's plot. It has only a passing reference to the well-known story of Robin Hood. Oh, right. And at the end, the King is so incensed that the French surrendered to Rusty instead of him so he outlaws Rusty, and names him 'Robin Hood', and thus begins the legend.So what, I hear you ask, are the actual flaws in the film? Well, firstly, it is that Robin is clearly a noble and well-educated man, rather than a dirty Englishman who has been fighting for the last 10 years in Palestine. Given the storyline, it would have been so much better had Rusty been a common soldier, given that he then pretends to be a nobleman.Secondly, everyone listens to Rusty, as if only he really knows what he is talking about. No one else has any idea how to fight, and even the King of England listens to him.Thirdly, it appears that the main group who eventually become the merry men of Sherwood Forest are in fact a bunch of dirty English children who have run away from their mothers in Nottingham because all their fathers are away fighting in the Crusades, and now they pillage their own families and hide in the forest.Fourth, the French are so inept that this bunch of dirty English children ride into battle against the French army and _aren't_ completely slaughtered. Heck, anyone can grab a sword and kill a bunch of seasoned warriors - it's only the French for goodness sake!Fifth, anyone can pass for a knight, even an archer. After all, the only difference between a knight and a peasant is the clothes they wear.Sixth, it is only when an old man tells him about his heretofore unknown father, that Rusty remembers everything from when he was six! Like he'd never tried before! And how his father, a stone mason and accomplished philosopher, got all the Barons to sign a revolutionary and genius charter that challenges the feudal system in England!Now, the script wasn't poorly written, or the action scenes badly shot. It's just that there really wasn't much of a story, and certainly no theme at all. As such, there was nothing for the audience to connect with. I didn't care a whit that Robin Hood was banished as an outlaw. Russel Crowe can't act for spit, and he did a terrible, limp job. It seems that his default role is as a noble, yet betrayed quasi- aristocrat, allowing him to be heroic with almost no facial expression (except at the end when he's yelling). Cate Blanchett was unremarkable in every way. The other actors were passable.I was quite disappointed with Brian Helgeland's script. He's done better work, such as LA Confidential, which had both characters and plot. Robin Hood had almost neither of both. There were never any stakes involved, and only one brief moment when everything looked bad (Marion's abduction scene). The French were coming, so Rusty whipped everyone up and they went and fought and won. That's it. That's the movie. Nothing to care about, no characters to like, no danger and no point to the movie.A poor effort from all involved. 1 out of 10.EDIT: I have since discovered that the script for this film was originally a bizarre CSI style film set in medieval England where the Sheriff of Nottingham tries to apprehend Robin Hood. Then Ridley Scott decided that he wanted to direct a Robin Hood story, and who knows how it went bonkers from that point on. Apparently the original script was a bit crap too, but completely different from the end product.
__label__1 Robin Hood is apparently Russell Crowe's "Water World". The movie, by Ridley Scott, is designed to be a historical production of Robin Hood, or that's my understanding based on the cinematography. The movie is so poorly constructed however, and the tactics so ridiculous, the audience actually broke out in laughter at several, serious, parts. The culminating battle at the end was terrible. In fact, Maid Marrian storming the beach with the 'lost boys' of Sherwood Forest at the end had us almost rolling. Of course the landing craft and the D-Day re-enactment scenes captured by Mr. Scott only added to our mirth... Seriously don't pay to see this movie.
__label__1 I just joined so I could comment on this movie and boy is it terrible. Just watch one of the many other Robin Hood related movies or TV shows instead of this trash.I've been a fan of Robin Hood since I was a kid and I've seen most if not all of the movies and TV shows and been too many of the Robin Hood attractions such as Sherwood Forest etc, so you can probably say that I know a bit about R.H and I've never heard of Robin Longstride (Note: The name "Robin Longstride" appears to be unique to the 2010 Robin Hood film starring Russell Crowe. However, Robin Hood has been depicted as a former Crusader in several versions, perhaps most notably in the 1976 film Robin and Marian. *from the bold outlaw website*) it's pretty bad that they just made up some random family friendly R.H story for a movie when there are plenty of great ones already that are a million times better than this, go and check out Robin Hood Prince of Thieves before you rate this more than 5. It's so bad that it looks like they had a smaller budget than the BBC TV show of the same name.The acting in this isn't really that convincing as none of the characters playing English folk came across as very English apart from Mark Addy who played Friar Tuck whom is British; plus some of the actors weren't very well cast, Russel Crow as Robin Hood is a joke. The music wasn't very accurate for the time period although I'm not sure when Celtic folk music began, but what I do know was 700 years ago here in England Robin Hood and his merry men weren't playing it. Did the research crew watch lord of the rings too see what life here in England was like in the days of Robin Hood.Anyway to finish my insane review be weary of people who vote this more than 5.
__label__1 1. This is not a movie about Robin Hood the legend, but about Robin Longstride. So instead of a green, lean rogue we get a dark, boring know-it all (Crowe).2. This is not about compelling storytelling. It's a mish mash of muddled stories, none of them interesting.3. This is not about believable fighting scenes. Kids on ponies (!!!!!) and old maid Marion (Blanchett) are equal to trained soldiers with shield, sword and chainmail. 4. This is not about believable archery. To master an English longbow one needed to train daily and develop lots of muscles to shoot it (670– 900 N (150–200 pounds)). But old maid superCate could draw and shoot the bow with no problem at all.5. This movie seems to be about World war II. The bad French king wants to invade good old England, so he uses an evil agent (Isaac) to destabilize the country. King John, portrayed as a raving idiot, sends him out to forcibly collect taxes. Instead of just doing that his black-clad troops act like bloodthirsty Waffen SS, killing everyone indiscriminately.Then more French troops land on a beach with WWII landing craft just to run around foolishly. Arrows are shot at them like machinegun-bullets causing the same kind of losses and despair as in Saving Private Ryan. After some really ridiculous fighting Crowe delivers a miracle shot with a wet bow, brings the drowned maid back to life and gets, as an after thought, banned.6. This movie is not about bright colours. It's dark and depressing.
__label__1 As an admirer of Ridley Scott's work - especially "Gladiator" but above all the totally outstanding "Kingdom of Heaven" - my wife and I went to see this in the cinema with some "good" expectations. Unfortunately, I couldn't wait for the whole farrago to come to a painful conclusion. The film is a total mess because its screenplay is simply horrendous. It has no proper "story" or structural narrative, the whole thing being like a quilt made up of different strands of so-called "story", which are then stitched together at odd times ["stiched-up" for the audience is a better description] in the forlorn hope that this will somehow make a "whole" thing emerge on the screen. The fault lies entirely with the scriptwriter, Brian Helgeland, for the most total rubbish screenplay I have ever seen - as well as with Ridley Scott for allowing himself to spend money and time filming this rubbish. Other commentators - especially "justin 55839": "A Disaster of a Movie" - have correctly picked up all the holes in the script and the film. This film really needs to be consigned to the rubbish bin. The only thing that kept me somehow half-interested was listening to the excellent soundtrack. Except there again, certain horrors of horror kept coming to the fore. I couldn't believe I was hearing 19th or 20th century Irish folk music as the background to the olde ye English folks people of the 12th century enjoying themselves around the village camp fires at night! Thank goodness the other two films of Scott's I mentioned above will help to keep his reputation intact.
__label__1 As most people know, Russell Crowe got arrested for throwing a cellphone at a hotel concierge. That's what I wanted to do to the screen when I saw Robin Hood, an excessively boring and lamely made attempt to screw around with the classic tale of Robin Hood. Crowe is either screaming or sleeping throughout the film. I have never had this complaint about an action film before, but I would like less action. Although they over modernize this version, at least there's no dance breaking Johnny Depp like in Alice In Wonderland. The film finds its right tone 1 or 2 times for not more than a couple of seconds. The pacing is poor, and the running time too long, and it feels like they try to fit about 10 different movies into a ridiculous running time of 2 and 1/2 hours. I respect what they try to do with the steal from the rich to give to the poor thing and twist it around, but it feels too much like just another Ridley Scott action film, except more dull than usual. A great supporting cast like Mark Addy, Mark Strong, Cate Blanchett & Max Von Sydow are wasted, reading their lines in an either dull or laughable or dull and laughable way. Overall, you can definitely skip this Robin Hood because it's just here to steal from your wallet and give to the movie theater.
__label__1 I watched this film for entertainment. I had no expectations. I don't mind if a director deviates from their source material, provided that the film works. However, I felt, as I watched, as if someone was patting my back, and picking my pockets.There are some beautiful scenes: butterflies flying from the treetops of Mirkwood, Smaug gradually revealing himself, etc. Nevertheless, the visual virtuosity is wasted, because the scenes have no emotional impact. The characters are undeveloped, and barely interact with each other. There is no tension, no texture, no warmth. The story feels as fake as the over-the-top special effects.The screenplay is insultingly bad by any standard. If you consider that it was adapted from the masterpiece of a world-class philologist, it's a crime against culture.If I had to summarize the film, I would call it a juvenile, tasteless, video game-like action sequence. Take the barrel riders scene. A dwarf rolls along the shore in a barrel, knocking orcs off the screen, exactly like in the Donkey Kong Country games. Meanwhile, Legolas and Tauriel, in god mode, with unlimited arrows, and a perfect aim, are slaughtering hundreds of orcs. I felt my brain cells dying as I watched.In conclusion, I left the theatre feeling violated. The film, to an even greater extent than its predecessor, embraces three things I despise about Hollywood: catering to the lowest common denominator, showcasing special effects at the expense of storytelling, and blatantly treating filmmaking as a business rather than as high art.
__label__1 This movie is so far from the story found in the book that Peter Jackson wouldn't have needed to get the rights from the Tolkien estate. I disagree with many of the naysayers who think this shouldn't have been turned into a three part series. There is plenty of story, action, and character development in the book to make three reasonable length films. The issue with how Jackson has handled this "adaptation" is that they have truncated most of the important elements to the original story simply so they could make up drawn out action scenes for the sake of action.The film immediately came off the rails in what should have been the queer lodgings chapter. I was fully expecting another fun scene like An Unexpected Party; where Gandalf lures Beorn into letting a company of Dwarfs stay in his house. What we get is a rushed scene where the entire company barrels their way into his barn-ish house fleeing from Beorn and locking him out of his own house. Then without explanation Beorn is fine with all the dwarfs piled in his house just because he hates orcs more then he hates dwarfs. This was one of my favorite scenes in the book and I was really disappointed with how awful it was done.Next we get to the edge of Mirkwood where Gandalf seems to suddenly discover he needs to go to the south. In the book you get the impression that Gandalf with his great foresight planned to leave the party at the edge of the forest long before they got there. With Gandalf gone the rest of the company immediately become a bunch of morons who simply get lost in stupidity. The entirety of Mirkwood takes them less than 15min to traverse which really kills the feeling that it's a great and massive forest. There was no black river, not once did Bilbo say attercot to taunt the spiders while luring them away from the dwarfs. The Elves come in to save the day killing the spiders and then take the company of dwarfs to their prison cells. No twinkling lanterns, no fires in little glades that go poof when Bilbo or a dwarf tries to approach.They are in and out of the Elvin prison in the blink of an eye with no sense of time that it took Bilbo to wander around learning his way around, scrounging for food and concocting his plan to escape. All of this was rushed through so we could have another action sequence of orcs chasing the party while elves chased them both but kinda helping the party of dwarfs. It makes no sense. Something that should have been done in a few cuts got extended to a 5min+ action sequence so they can show off their CGI.I could go on, but I'll skip ahead to the last part that never happens in the book. The last 15 minutes of the film is a drawn out action sequence of the Dwarfs and Bilbo battling Smaug inside the Lonely Mountain. In the book the Dwarfs never engage Smaug at all. The long straight secret tunnel leading to the hidden door is not long or straight at all in the film. To top it all off, the ending was cut as Smaug is flying away toward Lake Town. There is no battle, no burning of the city, no Smaug getting shot in the breast by Bard and thus falling into the lake causing it to billow up in a cloud of steam.In summary this is not The Hobbit. It is some film that Peter Jackson made up as he went along with what (conservatively) is less than 40% parts of the books story. If you are a fan of Tolkien you will undoubtedly be let down by this excuse of a movie.-Patrick
__label__1 A large proportion of the film is over-taken with elf-orc fight scenes: two elves that aren't even in the book manage to heroically slaughter hundreds of orcs in scenes that aren't in the book.The ridiculous 'not in the book' love interest between the female not-in-book elf and dwarf culminates in her healing him from a wound that didn't happen in the book, which separates him from the others (again, not in book) using magical powers that it is really unlikely she would have even if she did exist as only a tiny number of elves have that power.Then at the end, in more 'not from the book' drama, it would seem that hiding behind a sliver of stone will shield people completely from nearby dragon-fire. DRAGON FIRE which apparently doesn't get you if you turn the corner or jump off the cliff in the nick of time.This lies at the heart of what is wrong with this film, it is trying to turn the Hobbit into an action movie complete with totally unbelievable escapes from danger. This is (theoretically) based on a children's book, it should be more Narnia and less LOTR. Just because they are in the same world should not make this a prequel to LOTR.Also, all of this inserted stuff really grates and is mostly boring as it has no substance. I don't believe films have to slavishly follow the book but any changes should be justified and these most definitely are not.Finally, the new bits are given precedence over the actual story and original content. How can they turn a single book into three films and yet cut-down or skip or rush through loads of really good bits from the book? How can they expand the fake characters at length and yet the real characters are barely used? Only a couple of the dwarfs are even distinguishable from each other.No real attempt has been made to dramatise or flesh out the Hobbit book at all. This is a completely different film. And not even a good one.
__label__1 First, I want to say that I loved the LOTR trilogy. The spirit of the movie is close to the spirit of the books, even though the action scenes are more dominant in the films.The Hobbit has a completely different spirit than the LOTR trilogy. Though I am adult, and the Hobbit is considered a children's book, I enjoy it a lot. I have read the book a couple of times and listen to it (as an audio book in Swedish, with a very talented reader) and it is just a wonderful journey.Both the story-telling and the story itself has a great number of intricate and humorous moments. With Peter Jackson's talent of making the LOTR trilogy into the three movies I had great expectations of the Hobbit movie. Unfortunately, PJ has just made another LOTR-movie which has very little to do with the Hobbit.In my point of view, the greatest moment of the book was when the dwarfs, Bilbo and Gandalf visited Beorn. For the movie, I just couldn't wait to see how PJ had tackled the big hassle Gandlaf had to introduce all the dwarfs to Beorn. In the book, he had to introduce them two by two, during a long period of time. Just to make Beorn comfortable with so many visitors. PJ left this wonderful scene and changed it to an action scene, where the company just sieged Beorns house and didn't let him in. That makes the film story to something completely different than the book.Then, I was curious whether the company would be served by animals, as they are in the book. That could have been a challenge, and PJ didn't take it, but placed a normal cow and goat in the kitchen and living room.If you are around 13 years old, never read a book and obviously not the Hobbit, and love to play Grand Theft Auto - this might be a decent movie to watch. Otherwise: skip it.The only positive thing with the PJ:s movie being so bad and so far from the book, is that there is room for a REAL The Hobbit movie in the future!
__label__1 I loved the LOTR movies despite the liberties Jackson took with the story (especially in The Two Towers) and I found the first Hobbit movie tolerable but this one stinks. Jackson seems to think that we like his story-making over Tolkien's. He has used his gratuitously added action scenes from those movies as the basis for almost the entirety of this 3+hour movie.There is maybe 15 minutes of this movie that is from the book. The rest is stuff that Jackson wrote and never-ending CGI action shots that have such fast moving elements that you can barely tell what is going on and the characters perform feats that stretch belief so far that even the fantasy-world of Middle Earth cannot overcome. The character of Bilbo is diminished almost to a supporting one. The main characters of this movie are Tauriel and Legolas (the former made up by Jackson, the latter never appears in The Hobbit) and Bard. The character of Bard is totally changed from the noble protector of Lake-town to that of a ruffian on the margins of Lake-town society. The dwarfs were portrayed in the book as being a little cowardly, very greedy and bumbling. In the movie they are like a pack of Jackie Chan's with beards, even taunting the dragon to chase them through the halls of Erebor to try to catch him in a trap. From a cinematic critique Jackson continues his habit of massively exaggerating the scenery vertically so that as the party is making there way up the side of the Lonely Mountain it seems like they are climbing the Matterhorn.I could go on and on. Bottom line is this movie is lousy. I have watched each of the LOTR movies several times; I don't think I could sit through this movie for a second time.
__label__1 If you were thinking about seeing The Desolation of Smaug, do yourself a favor and stay home. It's close to 3 hours of your life you will never get back. The plot has almost nothing to do with the book. There are completely fabricated characters and there is NO character development. In fact, I had to go stand in the hall for a minute because my brother & I were laughing so hard about the fact that the third movie could be 3 hours of the cast members literally destroying copies of The Hobbit and it would probably be a better movie than this. The last 30 minutes are completely made up, insulting to Tolkein, and painful to watch. I would actually pay more than I paid to see the movie to get those 3 hours of my life back. I am at a loss for words at how Peter Jackson did so well with the Lord of The Rings movies and then seemingly had a seizure while holding a pen and decided to call it a script and go with it. I think they thought that bringing back Legolas would help the movie, but in fact they only detracted by going ahead & writing him as a bland character who is now, instead of being primarily an archer, a ninja swordsman of some sort. They also opt to attempt to squeeze in a love story instead of actual events that happened in the book, because dull romance sells. If you love the book as much as I do and have any sort of positive expectations for this film, you will be severely let down.
__label__1 Tolkien's works mean a great deal to me. I spent my childhood reading and rereading The Hobbit, the Lord of the Rings, and whatever else I could get my hands on published posthumously. The Hobbit is a gentle story. Bilbo, with some help from Gandalf and the Dwarfs, is able to accomplish amazing things, despite his small size, because of his luck, wits, and strength of character. The other characteristic of the book is the vastness, diversity, and beauty of the world, filling one with curiosity for what is just around the corner, but also taking just enough time to linger a while in every place.These Hobbit movies don't linger, characters and scenes are abridged in all the wrong places in order to make time for pervasive and repetitive chase scenes. Even where there isn't a chase scene, they are added. Jackson seems to have taken every scene in the book and asked the question "how can I make this into a battle/chase scene?" Bilbo's power and strengths, are greatly usurped in this film by the intervention of Legolas saving the day each time. Beorn is truncated. The magic and mystery of Mirkwood is particularly lacking. The gentle escape from the elves in the barrels is turned into a farce obviously designed to tie in with a future theme park ride.Don't see the films nor allow children to see them before reading the books. You should exercise your brains and imagination, creating the images yourself, rather than letting someone else imagine for you, causing you to be stuck with the images from these mediocre films.Jackson seems to know nothing of the poetry of the book, of mythological archetypes, language and history, nor the unique, gentle fantastic quality of Tolkien's work. Its very sad.
__label__1 I am a big fan of LOTR and whilst I thought AUJ was poor, I was willing to let that one go as a blip. With that in mind I had high hopes for TDOS which appeared from the trailer to be darker and grittier that the first instalment.Unfortunately, what was presented was an absolute shambles. The plot is truly terrible and a mere shadow of the original book; the HFR 3D serves to visualise most of the film as a cheap, made-for-TV soap opera; there is virtually no character development and the CGI fight scenes are so bad it's just laughable.In AUJ I found HFR 3D passable. It didn't distract me too much and maybe even enhanced parts of the film. However, in this instalment it was awful. The very first scene is almost unwatchable it's so bad and this is a theme that continues throughout most of the film. The character closeups are like watching a badly made TV show with all the limitations of costume and make-up clearly visible and the large-scale CGI scenes are like watching a computer game intro sequence. It just does not work.The plot is only loosely based on the book. The great character of Beorn is just glossed over and the gorgeous Murk Wood is presented as a mere triviality. I was looking forward to a sinister spider scene but all that we got was some Disney-style nonsense that was not in the least bit scary.The entire thing is conducted as if a child has written it... "...and then the dwarfs go into beorn's house and then beorn tries to kill them and then he's not bothered and then he hates them and then he doesn't and then we're bored of beorn and then they go to murk wood and then gandalf goes to find the necromancer and we don't really know what that is or why but just cos and then there are spiders and then the dwarfs are stuck in the webs and then they're not stuck anymore and then they box the spiders and win and then some really really good looking elves come along and one of them is legolas and he's not really a wood elf but we'll just pretend he is cos he's really really good looking and the other elf girl who's really really good looking gets the hots for one of the dwarfs erm yeah erm hmm and that probably seems a bit weird so then the dwarf tells her a story about the moon and then and then..."And now for the the fight scenes. Oh my god. Please just stop it. Please. If I see Legolas surfing around like some deranged beach bum with a bow and arrow one more time I think I'll throw up in the theatre. "Pathetic" doesn't even begin to describe the nonsense that is on display here.And why, when PJ or GDT or whoever started saying "... and then the dwarfs bait Smaug into lighting the furnaces and then hundreds of tons of solid gold melts in a few seconds and then the gold is made into a giant gold dwarf and then the giant gold dwarf splurges all over Smaug and then that's pointless anyway cos Smaug just shakes it off and then Smaug doesn't want to kill the dwarfs anymore just cos and then Smaug just flies off instead..." did someone not just stand up and slap whoever it was very hard in the face and say: "No. In then name of Gondor, I will not let you defile the work of the great Tolkien such"?
__label__1 This movie MIGHT make a decent typical action CGI cartoon-like modern flick (by today's low standards), but it was supposed to be so much more. I think I might have somewhat liked- or at least tolerated- it if it was a story cooked up by Peter Jackson without claiming to be based on the great historical tale of Tolkien's "The Hobbit". But, it claims to be "The Hobbit", and not "Peter Jackson's Wacky Tales from Middle Earth" so I looked at it against the true Tolkien story. From that viewpoint, this movies fails so bad that it is hard to write a review at all. And it failed even worse than "The Hobbit Part 1". Where to begin?.. The Dwarf Kili who looks more human than the human characters in this film (you would think with PJ's love of special effects, they would not have overlooked this). He doesn't fit and what is worse, they have him playing puppy-love games with a female elf who is not even supposed to be in the movie. This female elf has a very large and completely fabricated role. It's like PJ plucked the idea from the "Twilight" films where the girl is torn between the werewolf and vampire boyfriends- only this elf is torn between the human looking dwarf and Legolas. Oh, and Legolas wasn't in the real story either. His role here would have been OK if kept minor, but an entire contrived subplot that gives him an action hero role is unnaturally injected into the story in order to give Orlando Bloom way too much screen time. I write this having actually liked his part in Lord of The Rings. Radagast is almost as bad as he was in Hobbit 1 and Gandalf is worse. A MAJOR snafu on PJ's part is that the one plot point that carries through all the real stories is the journal Bilbo started keeping at the start of Mirkwood that eventually becomes Bilbo's & later Frodo's life work is totally left out (and this plot point is prominent in PJ's LOTR films and the book is handed down to Samwise). I could go on, but anyone who knows Tolkien gets the idea. I loved the PJ's LOTR movies, but I hate what PJ & crew have done with "The Hobbit" >:(One more point: PJ claimed that he used material from the LOTR appendix to get the filler to make 3 Hobbit movies, but that's not what he put in the Hobbit movies. The filler is made up from the mind of PJ & crew, not taken from the LOTR appendix. PJ must think he is better write than Tolkien. He is NOT.Edit: Peter Jackson ruined the Lord of the Rings with this movie, how? The whole of the beginning of Fellowship was Gandalf unraveling the mystery of Sauron and the Ring, but now Jackson wants to spoon-feed every connection to the audience, so shows Sauron to Gandalf in Dol Goldur, thereby making the whole opening in Fellowship mute. The more I think about the Hobbit 1 & 2, they worse they are to me. If I had the stomach to watch them again, I am sure there would probably be dozens, if not hundreds, of more errors in these hashed plots.
__label__1 For those of you who have never read the Hobbit (first off, shame on you) then you can disregard this review. You, like my husband, will probably enjoy this movie very much with the only complaint that it might be slow. However, for those of you who love the book as much as I do (it is probably one of my favorite books) you will be horrified as you watch this terrible film. The only good part about his movie is the beautiful rendition of Smaug and his interactions with Bilbo. Those are probably the most accurate parts portrayed in the movie from the book even though they are not exact. Major things that went wrong in this movie: -The overall feel of the book that was slightly present in the first film is gone. They tried to make it to much like the Lord of the Rings saga. The Hobbit is a different type of book and has a completely different feel that made the movie just feel not right. -I just cannot get over the creepy dwarf and elf love triangle that was set up between Legolas, Tauriel, and Kili. First off, a relationship between a dwarf and an elf would be completely unheard off and very unlike dwarven and elven characteristics. It goes very against the characteristics of their "races" and made me almost want to just stop watching. Does every movie need a love story these days to be interesting? -There are parts of the book that are blatantly changed for no apparent reason. Some changes that were made were understandable to condense the book into three movies. However, some of the changes made the movie longer, boring, and were just plain idiotic (here come the spoilers, you were warned!). For example, at the end of the movie the dwarfs lead Smaug around in a game of cat and mouse that takes up a good deal of time. This never occurred in the book and it was a waste of time. Another example would be much of the "adventures" the dwarfs and Bilbo had in Lake Town. Literally none of the boring material was in the book and it didn't lend anything to the story especially when a handful of the dwarfs were left in Lake Town because of Kili being hurt (again, never happened in the book and aided nothing to the story line). I could list dozens of examples of ways in which the movie strayed from the book. -One thing that was disappointing was how Beorn was played. He almost had an idiotic giant feel to his character which is not at all how he was portrayed in the book. At least his ponies made an appearance in the movies. -The extra material not included in the Hobbit with Gandalf's travels to seek out the Necromancer was a little slow and, at the end, very corny. Trust me, you won't be able to miss that they are trying to make sure you can see the connection between the Necromancer and Sauron. It was a little much. -I was looking forward to the song that Bilbo sang to taunt the Spiders in the forest. When it wasn't in the movie I was very disappointed. It was a part in the book that aided to Bilbo's character and it was left out. I could go on forever about how terrible this movie was but I think I will end it there. Overall, go and see it just to say you have. However, it is definitely not a movie worth seeing more than once and I am not very excited to see the final film.
__label__1 After watching the first Hobbit movie, I didn't want to think that Peter Jackson had jumped the shark, but he was certainly gunning the engine and racing towards that ramp next to the shark tank at full speed. With "Desolation of Smaug", he's over the tank and has crash landed hard on the other side.The first movie took a lot of liberties with the original book and changed the tone entirely. The second one might as well not have claimed to be based on the book at all. It races through the few scenes that actually came from the book at breakneck pace just so it can get to the overlong scenes with characters who weren't in the book, or the scenes that beat the viewer over the head with the idea that this is a prequel to Lord of the rings, or the many, many, many ridiculous action scenes. For example, the chapter from the book that tells of the company's stay with Beorn comes and goes in what feels like about three minutes at the beginning of the movie, and bears (no pun intended) almost no resemblance to the book. Meanwhile, there's at least ten times that much footage of elves who weren't in the book beheading orcs and goblins throughout the film.As many others have stated, I watched the Lord of the Rings movies many times in the theater and on DVD, but I have absolutely no urge to re-watch either of the first two Hobbit movies, and probably won't even bother seeing the third one.Personally, I'd like to see films taken away from Jackson and given to a decent editor to see if he could make a two hour movie that's actually based on the original book.
__label__1 This movie was an if for me at first, being that it just seemed like one of the many quickly thrown together fantasy novels/movies that have supposed huge followings. However, I found myself sitting there in the theater, and to be honest, I was somewhat impressed at first, the effects were very good, and although you can still obviously tell CGI versus live action, very smooth. The actors did a great job with what they had, and what they had is what ruined the movie. The script was rough at best, with randomly thrown together scenes that were leading towards an Aha! moment that never came. The whole movie kept building, and the plot kept thickening. However, in the end we are left with a sub par battle and more questions than when the movie started.It seems as if the sole purpose for this movie was to be the directors vehicle for a sequel, as the end comes at a point in the story which traditionally would be the arc of the plot, however we end up getting rolling credits in place of explanation. If there is one thing that I did actually enjoy in this movie, I will say once again, the animation was superb, the ice bears were magnificent, and the actors were good, but not even those could save this movie. Unless you have the mental capacity of a young child, this film will seem like a huge waste of your time and your dollars once the credits roll, and you as I will end up walking out unfulfilled, and ultimately let down.
__label__1 Having already read Pullman's Dark materials trilogy, I was understandably excited to hear that Northern Lights was being made into a film., however, I think should have been more suspicious about it being renamed "The Golden Compass". Despite that I still went to see it and I can't remember that last time I have been more disappointed by a film.Before I went to see it, I reminded myself that certain aspects of the story may be left out, as they were in the LOR trilogy, but I was not prepared for great swaths to be dismissed. Nor could be understand why it was deemed necessary for the huge amount of "dumbing down"; and this started within the first minute. Was the introduction to aspects of the second book and what a daemon is needed? No. Equally unnecessary as plastering a huge gold letter "M" on anything that was connected to the "Magisterium". I understand that the book was for Children primarily, but punctuating Lyra's first three attempts at reading the Alethiometer (yes, that's what it's called, NOT the Golden compass) with a gaudy representation of what she was "seeing" was completely pointless. However, I sure it will further emphasize the "Golden Compass" which will be terrific for merchandising  as if being shown at Christmas was not enough.So after I resigned myself to chapters being missed out and the altered chronology I decided to take in the acting, sets and CGI. Five minutes later I was glad it wasn't me that paid for the cinema tickets! Despite the impressive cast, the acting was wooden and lack luster. The characters which were so full of life and attitude in the book were flattened to one dimensional props. Make way for the fantastic CGI? Nope. Nowhere near the standard required, with cartoonish caricature faces for the daemons and far too much reliance on swirling gold dust.Now looking at my watch I see there's only a couple of minutes of the film left. I think "How on earth are they going to fit in..." And as the credits roll I understand. They're not going to put in the ending of the book. Much better to leave the film on some attempt at a cliffhanger to try and pull the punters in for the next movie  possibly to be called "The Shiny Silver Cutting Thing"?. I for one will be going to see it, but only to poke fun at it.
__label__1 When I first heard that The Golden Compass was going to be made into a movie, I had very low expectations. At first I thought Daniel Craig and Nicole Kidman were very poor choices for the roles of Lord Asriel and Marisa Coulter. However, as the hype started to build about the movie I became more and more convinced of their ability to do justice to those characters.I went to see the sneak preview of the movie on December 1st and was extremely disappointed. How a director can take a novel that is so brilliantly subversive, complex and daring and turn it into such a watered-down piece of drivel is beyond me. Chris Weitz, the director, said that he thought the focus of the novel is Lyra's relationship with Iorek Byrnison, an armored bear. His perspective is apparent in the sense that Iorek's ferocity in the book is transformed into an almost paternal, overly sensitive figure. Weitz leaves out the concept that "you cannot trick a bear" as it is presented in the book, therefore leaving the scene where Iorek and Iofur Raknison (Ragnar) fight to be completely meaningless. It does not translate that the bears are equally matched and the only reason Iorek prevails is because Iofur is trying to be a human. Omitting the idea that bears cannot be tricked also muddles the reason why the townspeople of Trollesund are able to steal Iorek's armor in the first place. This makes the bears seem flawed and foolish--not the courageous, aloof figures they are in the books. Finally, the movie claims that Iorek was banished because he was the bear prince and lost in the battle to be king--a huge difference from the book. All of these changes and omissions soften Iorek's ferocity, therefore making him seem more sensitive in his relationship with Lyra. In the books it is extremely apparent that the two love each other, but not necessarily in the tender, emotive way that is presented in the movie.It almost goes without my saying it, but it is very clear that the movie was trying to evade as much wrath as possible from the Catholic church. The religious elements and the corruption of the Magisterium are very downplayed, as well as the actual significance of Dust as original sin from the Magisterium's perspective.The worst part of this movie BY FAR is the ending. The end of the book presents an extremely emotional plot twist with its own cliff-hanger. The movie however stops short of the pivotal scene where Lyra brings Roger to Lord Asriel and instead ends on an optimistic note--that Lyra will be reunited with her father and will help him bridge the gap between worlds. Weitz ignores the emotional complexity of the final interaction between Asriel and Mrs. Coulter and instead offers a dull, blissfully ignorant ending that ultimately is an injustice to the book.There are several other nit-picky things that this movie got wrong that I haven't the space to explain (among them Billy Costa's assumption of Tony Makarios's role in the story, which completely changes the Gyptians involvement in the war, as well as Mrs. Coulter's revelation to Lyra that she and Asriel are Lyra's parents). I will say that all of the actors were well suited for their roles (especially Sam Elliott as Lee Scoresby)--the problem was that the actors had to fill watered down versions of the characters in the books. This movie was so disappointing I am extremely skeptical that there will be any way to redeem it in The Subtle Knife and The Amber Spyglass.
__label__1 so apparently you can't give 0/10 stars on IMDb, so let's chart my level of excitement and subsequent disappointment and anger while watching this disaster of an adaptation.opening: meh. kids, sparkly things, CGI daemons. yeah, this is about what i expected: 5Jordan College: OK, we're starting to change some pretty important stuff and blow unnecessary cash on more CGI. Important details cropped, i'm starting to worry: 3Lyra with Mrs. Coulter: this should have been a really easy montage sequence but instead stumbles over terrible acting, Weitz's ideas about daemons, and bad editing. this is getting kinda painful, actually: 2Lyra's escape and travel with the Gyptians: disastrous pacing, but possibly the first line actually taken from the book in this section. Seraphina Pekkala just seems stupid and Lyra's ability to read the alethiometer comes out of the blue without a word of explanation. really, this sucks: 1Trollesund and journey north: Iorek was kicked out of Svalbard for losing a fight? why isn't the can't-trick-a-bear conversation in there? i don't even know what the hell Weitz was trying to pull with these changes, this is utter crap. ughhhhhh: 0Svalbard: OK, they're really changed the sequence here. and there's no mention of the fact that the ways of the bears has been changed by their new king. the fight between the bears is OK, but the drama of not being able to trick a bear unless he's acting like a human is all gone. Iorek tears off Ragnar's jaw and rips out his throat. just to make sure we realize this ain't no damn kids movie!: 0Bolvangar: out of sequence crap and Lyra ends up at Bolvangar. worst editing ever, no set up, no discussion about what intercision is really, no metal blade (did he read the subtle knife?!?!), no saving the daemons... i just don't understand what the hell (stronger words would be used if IMDb allowed) is going on. and did he just have Nicole Kidman faint as a cop out? is it the 1950's?!?! ARGGHHHH!!!!!!!: -3Lee Scoresby's balloon: Seraphina kinda says something similar to a line of hers in the book, whoo. the balloon has engines (more stupid CGI). Lyra and Roger have a conversation that they're supposed to have later and... wait! what the hell?!?! that's the end of the movie!!!! oh my god. how the hell do you end that story there?!?!?! i hate you Chris Weitz!!!!!!!! this Sucked!!!!!!!!!: -1,000,000,000,000it goes to black and some crappy music starts playing. there's a woman singing, too. i don't know what about, but when i heard "Lyyyyyyyyyrrraaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhhhhh" i knew it was time to leave. Chris Weitz, you suck.
__label__1 I'm an incredibly big fan of the trilogy "His Dark Materials" and I can safely say that if you are too, you will want stay away from this movie. While it essentially follows the general plot of the book, it has captured nothing of the original magic of the books and has changed a ridiculous amount for no apparent reason. I can understand missing bits out due to time restrictions, but the movie has completely ripped the book up and then sellotaped it together in a mix mash of the original plot. Not only that but it is incredibly dumbed down, probably to suit the audience.I could go on detailing the failings of what could a have been an excellent movie, but I think that Luke Ewing has said pretty much everything I feel. I highly recommend that you save any money from going to the cinema and buy the books. You'll soon understand why we are so annoyed with this joke of a movie.I'm just glad I didn't waste any of my money to see this utter rubbish. If I were Philip Pullman, I would have shot myself just so I can spin in my grave!
__label__1 Dear lord, what a mess the makers and writers made out of this film.It started off interesting with hope then very quickly it descended into a mess of re-written scripts TOTALLY different to the book. The scenes themselves looked beautiful but everything else after that was a complete mess. Plots were left unexplained, the reasons for many, many characters existents and actions were not even explained or touched on - as well as their very actions being completely changed or invented totally from thin air! You were left wondering many a time "why is this happening" - "who did that happen?" - "what has this got to do with the story" - what the heck is going on?" and "would someone please explain why ALL of the characters are doing what they are doing? And that's just the tip of the iceberg...The makers of this film TOTALLY took a meat cleaver to the story. Cut huge and I mean HUGE chunks out, totally twisted scenes around to an unbelievable extent, let characters live that actually die, NEVER explained backgrounds of anything! Leaving out the fact that they rewrote the whole book and made a complete shambles of it, just as a non-reader, many have commented to me in the cinema, on the way out and afterward to this present day (June 2008) the equivalent of "you could tell they pulled the good guts out of it". Dear god, if your going to make a film from a book, stick with the book or make up one of your own completely. Don't waste our time and your own by buying the rights to a book and then ripping it to shreds and sticking it back together again in an unintelligible mess. What is the point of buying the rights to a book in the first place if your going to totally re-write it (and screw it up in the process too to boot)?I understand that the makers were spineless and cowered to the religious nuts by removing anything that made any intelligence to those with brains. The effect of this cowardice left behind a film that was a total waste of time, an insult to the original writer of the book and a waste of talent that should have been used better in a greater film than this mixed, unexplained unmitigated disaster.If there is going to be sequels and going by this film, I hope to all heavens there is NOT - can we the audience have a change of makers, scriptwriters and a producer, a director with a brain and at least someone with guts to stand up against the zealous religious right.To sum up: what a complete mess and waste of talent.This film could have been so, so so much better.Rating: one out of ten.
__label__1 This has to be one of the most over-hyped movies of all time, a veritable 'King Kong' of a movie deflated to Bubbles the chimp stature with its wooden acting, naff sequences, contrived plot and extreme length. As the saying goes 'its not how big you are but how you use it!" Unfortunately Mr. Jackson feels the need to release onto us the Bigger, Longer and Uncut version from the get go.To wade into this movie is to find yourself in a jungle but in the end having sifted through everything all you get is a monkey-nut. To begin with its one basic flaw is that its too long by far, over an hour too long. Jackson feels the need to show us all Ann Darrows workmates at the theatre one by one. He develops them to a point where you're thinking they're going to be integral to the story and then he swiftly moves, he does it with the crew of Venture. Lots of scenes with them, pointless in the end especially when they die, they just seem like cannon fodder for our amusement. There is just too much of everything in King Kong. Too many characters to begin with, too many natives, too many monsters, Kong fights off not one, not two, but three t-rex's at the same time. Denham and Driscoll are not attacked by one or two big bugs, but a gazillion of them. At this point I was shaking my fist at the screen Its as if Jackson sat in a suite at Weta, like a kid in a candy store and said, I'll have two those, ten of those, seven of those and twelve of those etc etc. Too much, quality not quantity Mr. Jackson. There are some cringe worthy moments too, especially in the dinosaur chase scene, with Adrien Brody punching, yes punching a Velociraptor (Steven must be laughing extremely loudly) in the face all the while not trying to get stamped on by some brontosaurus , gimme a break.The scenes between Ann and Kong begin funny, but turn stupid as Jackson has some how turned the beast of Kong into a docile and almost human like character, I was half expecting the pair to get down to some frantic love-making by the end of it, cringe, cringe cringe.I could go on and on and on, oh I could, but the most glaring contrivance occurs at the very beginning when we are cheated out of an explanation. Denham played by Jack Black is trying to convince his film financiers to give him more money, but having seen his rushes they're not convinced. However, Denham pulls from his pocket a map no less, of Skull Island, a map nobody else has, annnnnd thats it. No back-story, no 'where did he get that map' no dodgy Asian guy in a pawn shop, no mystic Mr. Miagi, no cults, no Nazis, no nothing. Denham just has the map, the map on which the whole movie rests, a poor downtrodden director has this map, where did he get it!!!!!! Is that to be saved for King Kong 2: Son of Kong, I guess so, but I'll be in no rush to see that, but I was in a rush to leave the theatre to avoid the 17, yes SEVENTEEN minute end credits.
__label__1 I hardly know where to begin. I had such high hopes for this film. I felt that Jackson was a good choice to reinterpret the story and there are brief flashes of what I was hoping for salted throughout the film, but they are few and far between. And what they are hidden in is as big a mess as I've ever seen.Many of my biggest complaints are covered by other reviewers - too long; pointless characters and subplots that conveniently disappear; bad CGI scenes; lousy dialog; utterly inappropriate attempts at comedy relief; stupidly contrived situations where people absorb physical punishment that would cripple or kill a trained stuntman, but they just jump up and carry on as if nothing happened; inane inconsistencies (Watts in winter with no coat doesn't shiver on Empire State, ape that pulls down theater balcony can skate on thin ice, etc); the abominable performance by Jack (I can't act to save my life) Black; and, worst of all, the mind-bogglingly idiotic concept of having her love the ape more than she loves the guy. But here's a couple of things I didn't see mentioned (and I only made it in about 200 reviews before crying Uncle, so if someone did catch these, I apologize):When they first go ashore to investigate the village, nobody thinks to bring a weapon? Are you kidding me?One of the only bits of dialog retained from the original film is the "scene" Denham shoots with Ann Darrow and the ham actor recreating Fay Wray and Bruce Cabot's scene where Driscoll tells Ann that women are bad luck on a ship. Then, the new film takes pains to assure us that this was not the deathless dialog of playwright Brody/Driscoll but a bit of cheese made up on the spot by the ham "playing" the film-within-a-film's first mate. It's odd, but in every one of the few instances that Jackson (who calls himself a big fan of the original) references the first film, he does so in the most disrespectful manner possible, as if to say, "Yes, wasn't that a quaint, creaky old piece of junk I used as the basis for my superior cinematic achievement?" Only problem is that quaint old film is a classic and will still be entertaining audiences long after this new pile of dreck has mercifully faded away.And about the ham actor - hasn't anyone ever taught Jackson that one of the most important rules of good cinematic storytelling is that a character undergoes a change in the tale but only once. The ham goes from sniveling coward to avenging Rambo on a vine with a tommy-gun, back to sniveling coward whenever it suits the plot.I could go on but to what purpose. I've already given this film more time than it deserves and if you haven't gotten the point by now, you probably never will. But there is one last thing I'd like to address and it's the issue of suspension of disbelief.I'm a pretty agreeable guy when it comes to buying into a film's universe. If you let me know up front that in this movie, pigs can fly, then I say fine, fly those pigs. But the filmmaker has to hold up his side of the bargain. And if his film is poorly conceived and badly made, before long, I'm going to be looking at those flying pigs (and every other element in the film) with a far more critical eye. This leads us to a complaint I saw mentioned several times in the reviews I read where folks were incensed that Jackson skipped over the process of getting Kong on the ship and then showing the journey back to New York. But if you look at the original, it's done the same way. Denham talks about Kong's name being up in lights, how they'll all be millionaires, how he'll share it with all of them and BANG! we're back in NY outside a theater advertising the appearance of Kong - Eighth Wonder Of The World. The difference is: in the original, we're caught up in the story, entranced and ensnared, we willingly follow wherever the film leads us because we are under its spell. But in the new one, many of us have been looking at our watches for an hour or more. We're fed up with a boatload of unlikable characters acting like morons and monsters who act just as dumb. We're in a hurry to get this over with, but we know we're not going anywhere for a while so we resort to the time-honored sport of the bored film-goer - we start picking apart every single thing we see.And that's really it in a nutshell. We didn't care. Jackson, for all his supposed gifts and his love for the first film, couldn't involve us. The good reviews this film has received baffle me. The only answer I can come up with is that a lot of people have been taught to have diminished expectations from their entertainment. Make it enough like a video game and they think it's fine. But it's not fine to anyone who grew up in the grip of great storytellers. I had supposed Peter Jackson might be such a storyteller. If, in fact, he is, then this is no more than a woeful misstep. But it is so poor, one is forced to entertain the thought that this is the true Peter Jackson - a hack with too much money and not enough talent. What a bitter disappointment this film is.
__label__1 Where oh where did it all go wrong? You had a $200 million budget, special effects wizards up the wazoo and Peter "LOTR" Jackson directing a bona fide classic that could only benefit from a modern retelling. However, the end result -- a bloated, melodramatic, self-indulgent dog's breakfast of a movie -- proves the maxim that sometimes, "less is more." King Kong is a very simple story, in fact, its almost a parable or fable, and the drama and excitement is all in how you tell that story. The original Kong (1933), despite its dated effects, still remains a gripping, moving experience because of the way the story is told through the magic of the cinema. Peter Jackson obviously hasn't watched the original for some time because his version takes all the magic out and replaces it with boring special effects and long running sequences that badly need editing. Why Jackson decided to stretch this simple movie to over 3 hours is a question only he can answer.There's so much wrong with this disaster, that it would take a King Kong-sized review to describe, so I'm just going to list some of the lowlights:1) At over 3 hours, its far too much movie for far too little story. So we get tons of sequences that run well past their expiration date and bog the movie down. At least 45 minutes to 1 hour could have been cut and you wouldn't lose a thing.2) Too much melodrama between Kong and Ann Darrow. If a love story between a gigantic ape and a woman makes your socks roll up and down then you won't mind the endless scenes of Ann and Kong staring deeply into each others eyes, but if it doesn't, you'll be rolling your eyes and looking at your watch as I was.3) Too much melodrama concerning King Kong. Jackson's King Kong loves sunsets, jokes and ice skating. He so makes us want to feel empathy and love for Kong that he beats us over the head with it and then beats us some more. King Kong is a monster Peter, not a lovelorn single looking for a potential mate. The transformation of Kong from king of the monsters to misunderstood metro-sexual turns the movie into sentimental rubbish.4) Shoddy CGI sequences that run on and on and on and on.... but you get the idea. CGI Kong looks great, except for when he's fighting, but the rest of the CGI, especially the green screens are amateurish. For a high budget effects movie, some of the effect sequences really are dismal and detract from the viewing experience. "Jurassic Park" is over 10 years old and its effects are better than Kong's and that is not a point in King Kong's favor.5) Rampant stupidity. In the original, Kong fights a T-Rex who has threatened Ann, and defeats it an fantastic fighting sequence. Jackson has Kong fight 3 T-Rexes utilizing a variety of martial arts moves, it was almost like watching Neo-Kong from the Matrix. To top it all off, the T-Rexes bite Kong but cause no damage. No wonder Kong wins, when your opponents can't hurt you the outcome of the fight is obvious.6) Poor character development and story arch. Ostensibly there is a love story between Ann Darrow and Jack Driscoll, but Ann's love for Kong is so strong that it overwhelms whatever relationship she had with Driscoll. So why keep it in the movie? Given the changes Jackson made in the core relationships, he should have changed Ann and Jack's story as well, because as is, its utterly idiotic. And that's just one example, the movie is full of this kind of bad scripting and characterization.
__label__1 For the first hour I was seriously bored. The acting was laughable, the characters were unbelievable cardboard cut outs, and the situations were overlong and just plain tedious.Things changed when they (at last) reached the island. They stopped being boring and started being nonsensical. There are the island natives who kidnap Ann and stake her out for Kong. Why? In the original, the sacrifice is necessary to appease the monstrous ape... but that can't happen in THIS version because the ape is our hero and has a gentle soul...At least there's enough action that you won't be bored as a series of ever-larger dinosaurs start chasing people through jungles, stopping only occasionally to fight Kong. Mind you, the action HAS to move at a huge pace because otherwise you'd start to think how ridiculous it all is. All the characters should have been dead within the first few minutes, but since we know that the "principles" have to survive for the ending, all that is of interest is seeing the ever-more grisly ways thought up for eliminating most of the minor characters. The guy being devoured by the giant leeches just caused laughter throughout the cinema.But I think the most disappointing aspect of a very disappointing film was the sentimentality. This starts on Skull island when Ann does her vaudeville routine and juggles for Kong. But it reaches its nadir when the action moves back to New York. All of the scenes before Kong reaches the Empire State Building are bad. But when he goes skating with Ann in Central Park! Honestly, you couldn't make it up - well actually you could because someone did, but you SHOULDN'T! No more laughter in the cinema - instead there were people walking out. If a character is *TRULY* lovable, the audience will react appropriately - the added schmaltz just shows that even the people who made this film realised that they hadn't succeeded in the task of making us love Kong.So we can't love Kong as a character, and he is no longer portrayed as a monster, and in the end we don't care whether he lives or dies.Actually that's not *quite* true. I cared about him after he died - I cared that he fell from the top of the Empire State Building to the street below and his body seemed intact. I mean, he SHOULD have splashed everything up to the 6th floor or so with a thin puree of skin and blood, but because he's the hero his corpse has to look noble.Badly acted, confusingly directed, appallingly scripted, meaningless, nonsensical garbage. But the CGI is good - in parts.
__label__1 Peter Jackson's movie isn't good enough to rise to the level of trashing a classic. This clueless filmmaker has no concept of character development, plot continuity, the necessity of camaraderie between characters in an adventure movie, or the need for heroes vs girly men.The opening scenes are only half-bad, but the movie falls to shreds when the party lands on Skull Island and finds --- not South Pacific natives --- but a Haitian voodoo crowd obviously on drugs. From there the miscalculations get worse. The dinosaur scenes, including ones where men are eaten alive, are so bad they have the audience snickering. Who cares anyway? One hour into the movie and the audience is involved with nobody. There's no suspense without involvement, no mystery, no concern who lives or dies. Peter Jackson is a director committed to excess, because with excess being excellent or not doesn't matter. Thus when Kong is attacked on his mountain perch by a flying dinosaur, it isn't one but several; allowing Jackson to simply film a confused mess.One critical scene which Jackson screws up badly is when Kong follows Ann to the village and slowly breaks the mighty gate down. Not here, no, there isn't any slowly; Kong bashes it down in 2 seconds flat and the tension-building scene falls flat.When the story reaches New York the picture deteriorates from a snicker-filled bad movie into a colossal bore. Kong just goes bananas and it doesn't really matter how.The clinker is that Ann Darrow supposedly goes all dew-eyed for our ape-hero. Well yahoo! That's worth 3 hours and ten bucks easy!This film contains one pointless excessive scene after another, scenes which contribute nothing to the storyline, bog the story down like deep mud on a racetrack, serving only the purpose of bloating the running time of a 90 minute story to almost 3 hours. This moviegoer wonders, having heard the snickers in the audience and remembering the glowing reviews including the IMDb, how much of the $150 million was spent filming this mess of a movie, and how much went to pay off film critics? Including input supposedly by folks like us in this database? Has the day come when Hollywood rigs these amateur reviews? Easy enough to do.On the cheery side, this film is on death row at the box office. Universal's dreams of having the all-time hit are replaced with questions of how many million will the film lose. This film won't even be a memory come Easter.When the real KING KONG was released in 1933 during the Great Depression, there were about 80% less people in the USA and admission prices were scaled at 35 cents to 75 cents at the New York first run. More typically people paid 20 cents to see KING KONG. It was a smash hit, and has continually made money for 72 years. The original was a winner: artistic, popular, long lasting. Something to be proud of.
__label__1 Not content with lecturing us on class and colonialism, Peter Jackson wants to make The Passion of the Kong. It wasn't beauty that killed the beast, he wags his finger at us, but you the audience, in the name of entertainment for the price of a ticket. The crucified ape! Beastiality the only escape for Anne Darrow from a world of venality, weak men and rough traders.This gives rise to not only a problem of drama, but many choice moments such as the crew risking their lives to save 'beauty' and all she cares about is Kong. "No! Don't shoot him!" She protests, while all and sundry are being crushed by the behemoth. How's that for gratitude? They should have chucked her into the sea and told her to swim to the boat.Critics have lionized Jackson's 'skills as a story teller', but I've always found the results autistic and cartoon like. Artless. But this was the same style used in Lord of the Rings, which plenty of ordinary punters liked. Kong ultimately collapses under the sheer weight of so many back to back miscalculations and revisionism. It politically corrects itself out of any suspense or drama, aside from the punishing length.It is not as big a disaster as Ang Lee's Hulk, a movie that should never have been released in that condition, but it is dreadful.Recently I saw The Guns of Navarone again, which coincidently has a scene in which a boat tries to navigate treacherous rocks, and was struck just how modern cinema has lost that ability to simply tell a moral story coherently and involve us in the characters.
__label__1 What do you get when a one hit wonder director decides to make a remake of a classic? This pile of rubbish! I was as excited to see this movie as most people, but after that brontosaurus stampede with the people fighting raptor-like creatures while weaving in and out of dozens of tree trunk sized legs, the movie was all downhill. The CGI on King Kong was very good, except when he was physically interacting with Ann Darrow. In fact, most CGI that had a human interacting with another creature was not very good, especially the brontosaurus stampede. NYC also looked very good. But just because it's pretty doesn't mean it makes up for the other terrible CGI.This movies action sequences were not ridiculous, they were silly. How many times is King Kong going to get bit by a T-Rex on his arm and keep on fighting as if nothing happened? When the men were in the "spider pit", Adrian Brody's character is covered by giant cricket like creatures and a teenage shipmate who had not fired a gun in his life until about 4 minutes previous, whips out a tommy gun and start picking off the crickets with pin point accuracy, not hitting Brody once. There are other other instances, but these two are sufficient to show the outrageousness.The main thing about this movie that really makes it horrible, is the love story. King Kong loves Ann Darrow, this we know. Ann Darrow does NOT love King Kong. According to Peter Jackson however, she is equally obsessed. The whole movie felt like some cheesy Hugh Grant movie. Every 15 minutes there was a shot of King Kong gazing into her eyes, and then a reverse shot of her eyes filled with tears. Give me a break, this is a giant gorilla that has taken her into uncharted jungle, away from Driscoll who she is also supposedly in love with. Don't sell me this crap. Then, when King Kong gets to NY, he slides on the ice with her, giggling like a drugged chimp. King Kong is supposed to be scary! The original worked because Ann was scared, and she SCREAMS! Naomi Watts screamed once in this movie. The rest of the time she is too busy flirting with the house sized gorilla. I don't know what King Kong you watched as a child Peter Jackson, maybe it was the New Zealand version.The script was terrible. The acting was atrocious. This looked like a really expensive student film. Peter Jackson decided that he didn't have to build suspense because everyone has seen the original. There was no suspense in this movie. Yes, we all know for the most part what King Kong is going to do, but all of the destruction and killing seemed so shallow and cheap.There is one thing I liked about this movie. Andy Cercus. He did the movements of King Kong terrifically, and his character was amazing, the only good actor in the film.I'm sorry if my thoughts aren't organized, I'm just baffled that so many people like this movie, and am venting.
__label__1 For the record, I loved the Lord of the Rings Series. I love long, heavy movies. The length of most movies doesn't bother me - as long as it is worth it. And King Kong is not worth it.First of all, there were many plot holes that totally lacked explanation. How/when/where did Jack Black's character obtain that map? And why didn't he seem up set when he lost it? It was winter in New York City and Naomi Watt's character was walking around in an thin gown and we don't even see her breath? She doesn't so much as shiver as she stands on the top of the Empire State Building. And why didn't the pond that King Kong slid around on so much as creak? The army just "showed up" minutes after King Kong escapes? And then starts blasting apart the city? If King Kong had really fallen from that height there would have been bits-o-monkey everywhere. That or he would have smashed through the street and screw up the sewer system. How could they have kept King Kong sedated the entire trip back? The movie makes it seem like it took months to get there, but only a week end to get back.Another thing that bothered me was that Naomi Watts and Adrien Brody had no, and I mean no, chemistry whatsoever. None. I didn't understand their supposed "attraction." The dialog between them was so phony and speaking of dialog what was with the part with Andy Serkis after they find the tracks in the jungle saying, "Only one creature could have made those tracks, the Abominable Snowman." Was that supposed to be funny or something? Or what about Jack Black's last line in the movie, "It was beauty that killed the beast." What was with that? Was it supposed to be clever or moving? Well, it wasn't. There's more but frankly, I don't even want to think about it anymore. Long story short, save your money and your time.
__label__1 Back this past summer, I saw a trailer during War of the Worlds for the new King Kong movie. At the time I had only heard about who was in it, directing, etc. I had to say this trailer blew me away. Peter Jackson was able to make me a LOTR fan just from the movies alone, it wasn't till after the first LOTR that I read the books. So I figure, King Kong will be amazing. I loved LOTR, I felt that Jackson does an amazing job with CGI, and as unrelated as it may seem I am a huge Jack Black fan and was dying to see his first dramatic role in a blockbuster film. So Summer passes, as does Fall, and Winter rolls around. Soon enough its mid Decemeber and my friends and I are all amped, to say the least, to see what we honestly expect to be one of the best movies of all time, and a true experience. (Note the movie had been out for a week by this time, so any bad reviews we may have heard by that point.) So I enter my set with the most positive outlook on this movie and it goes all downhill from there. For the first portion of the film, NY to Skull Island. Every shot that involves a character speaking or listening to someone else speak is a tight and long close up. When this happens in a film, it is just plain insulting to intelligence. Only four year old need to be shown nice a big exactly who is talking. The characters seemed predictable, but then again there were few variations in which they could have been played. Although it may sound biased the best dialog acting was done by Jack Black, but maybe this was because he had almost the majority of the lines in the film, regardless of screen time (I mean come on, Watts can't talk to an ape for 90 minutes). Skull island looked pretty, and the most tense and "into" the movie I felt for the entire 3 hours was during the foggy night when they reached the island. About 90% of the movies I see in theaters entice my senses and grab my attention, keep me interested in the characters in other words, for the vast majority of the film. Even with the most positive state of mind on this film it failed to make me connect with it. Every shot of a native on skull island was horrid. Grosteque close ups with a blurry shaky camera left me shaking my head in shame in the seats. But then Kong shows up. Oh boy! I think, now this movie will get going. Again I am wrong. The best thing about Kong in the entire film was its realness in comparison to actual gorillas. Not at one point in this film did I feel sorry for Kong when he died, or saw any chemistry between Watts and Kong. By the time they leave the island, Jackson's shot have become tiresome clichés that he overuses again and again. I wasn't really expecting him to use the heroes crossing the bridge in single file shot like i saw so many times in LOTR, but he does it twice in the film. The Kong vs Rex scene was nice. But 4 minutes of action won't save the film. The bug fight was disgusting, revolting, unbelievable, and simply boring. I think my favorite part of the film was when they skipped the ride home on the boat. I actually half expected another 25 minutes or so and was actually relieved to see that part skipped. So what happens next? Well the part of Kong that everybody already knows from the first, ape gets lose, tears up NYC, finds girl, climbs tower, gets shot, famous last lines. I had heard that the original actress from the 33 film was to do the last lines, but she passed away before it could be filmed. I laughed for a bit when I saw Black deliver the famous last lines. In short, me and everyone I know found this movie completely overrated. Granted we had high hopes, but reading the online reviews and hearing the comments people made in the first week really was misleading. I sometimes wonder if they all just said they liked it so they seemed cool or something.Things I liked, NYC shots did looked very 30s. Costumes again were amazing, and a couple nice scenes that were tributes to the original film. But not a movie I plan to see again ever.
__label__1 Somewhere in this 3 hour mess is a good movie. It's based off of a winning concept, but clearly one not meant to last this long. All this film has to offer over the original is color and surround sound. For a 3 hour investment, I expect something more, beyond a headache.The score is dreadful. This film featured the worst scored bug-eating-humans scene in history! And when this scene starts, there is still an hour of this movie to go! I know, because I checked my watch.I got so desensitized to the CG action that by the time the T-Rex fight came on, I just didn't care anymore. The rapid cutting and close ups didn't help either. I guess when it was viewed on small monitors during the editing it made sense, but on a theater screen it was incomprehensible. This also isn't the only movie to suffer from this, but it's the longest and has nothing to make up for it, so it's even more annoying.I felt sorry for Kong, not so much for being misunderstood and killed in the end, but for having to appear in this movie. He was the best actor in this thing. Everyone else had all the charisma and charm of a fan film and looked lost. Jack Black is ridiculously bad and Adrien Brody is dull as dirt. And Naomi Watts couldn't power a small light bulb, let alone generate any star powerAt one point in the fog, the navigator says, "There aren't any stars." This movie doesn't deserve any.
__label__1 I could barely sit for the whole duration of the movie. I was fond of Peter Jackson because of Lord of the Rings (LoR) and this movie is a major delusion for me. It is totally lacking of credibility, of tension. From the photography and the use of digital, it is similar to LoR, but the effects are totally out of context here. For example, the tribe people look like the orcs in LoR.The dinosaurs are like in Jurassic Park, just they totally lack of credibility. At some point in the movie some of them even bounce like bowling balls. You don't know if to get angry at the director or to laugh for the stupidity of the action and of the dialogues.Overall, it was an incredible (negative) experience! Tell to your friends not to waste your money in this film, please!
__label__1 People says: an Avengers movie with 'emotional depth' and 'moral  complexity', and now I have to question what planet they're living on.  Seriously, WTF people!! if this is 'emotional depth' and 'moral  complexity' then Marsellus Wallace is a bitch!   When their operation to stop the theft of a biological weapon in Lagos  goes explosively wrong leaving dozens of civilian casualties and  themselves under scrutiny. It may be that I'm misremembering, but were  there any civilian casualties in the past???   Didn't whole cities go up without anyone even wandering around dazed  with a nosebleed? But the plot needs what the plot needs so now the  Avengers have always blown up innocent people, which leads to 100  nations gathering together and saying: this must stop. And: you must  all be brought under the control of the UN.  While Iron Man is for it, Captain America, who is more Brexit, quickly  goes rogue and becomes a fugitive. This could have then set the scene  for, perhaps, saying something almost interesting about government  control, military might and divided loyalties, but instead it results  in all the superheroes choosing #TeamCap or #TeamIronMan there are no  takers for #TeamNeither, which would have been the sensible option   WHY WHY they fight!! Come on!!!   Captain America a rebel soldier???
__label__1 Superheroes may misunderstand and they make mistakes but, ultimately, they are morally incorruptible. If they find themselves on the wrong side of a fight it's because they've misunderstood the nature of the problem. However, when reality finally hits home we can rely on them to admit their error and go off to fight together in the name of Truth, Justice and the American Way. People who die are unavoidable collateral damage, superheroes are beyond reproach and we need them too much to limit their powers. The world is just too scary and too dangerous to shackle the mighty with red tape and bureaucracy. Superheroes are better than us mere mortals, not just more powerful but also more moral. They don't need to follow the same rules we do.After Winter Soldier I was under the (apparently mistaken) belief that Marvel's Capt. America franchise was criticising neoliberal America. There was all that stuff about the ends not justifying the means and about how politicians use terror to convince the population they need to be oppressed for their own good. How wrong could I be! Now I see that it's actually the opposite. It pretends to be anti-establishment but really it's just about justifying a sense of self-entitlement. Like Donald Trump, Capt. America criticises the State for oppressing people whilst simultaneously adhering to exactly the sort of high-handed moral superiority that inevitably leads to that oppression. He (I mean Capt. America) obviously skipped school on the day they taught the importance of checks-and-balances and why one of the central principles of US Democracy is that of the separation of powers.The message of this film is simple. If you believe you are right, then you can do whatever you want as long as it's in the name of *insert moral cause*. Anyone who tries to limit your personal crusade is either stupid, naïve or oppressing you. Freedom from oppression means the freedom to act like you're better than other people, because, well, you ARE better than other people (go on, admit it, you're amongst friends here).
__label__1 I'm confused so much, all these movies sorta blend into each other. Since they are tied together. Hulk, Thor, Cap America, Iron man, etc.... Since the avengers were in this I assumed it was another Avengers movie.But no it's Captain America: Civil War? Huh? Don't you need the Avengers for a civil war? What it being CIVIL and all. Umm....so confused.Where is Thor and Hulk, and Loki and and and.....I can go on and on, but you get the point. We really know it was budget issues. They are IN the Avengers, SO why are they not asked to sign? ?????Confusion. WHY do, ALL OF A SUDDEN, half the avengers seem not to trust Cap???? OH right since that is what the plot needed. This whole movie is just trash. Random spider man and ant man thrown in too, why not? Just whatever at this point. Explosions and random sh*t. Can anyone make sense of these movies anymore?All started with Cap, the Nazis stole something from Thor/Loki....then he was frozen, woken up....umm Tony Stark's father knew Cap. Umm Cap almost banged Peggy? She did stuff created shield or something....then Hydra got in. Then Loki went crazy, and Thor stopped him, or didn't. Umm then Iron man made suits....Black widow wore tight tight clothes. She was in ballet??? Kissed Cap, but loves Hulk??? Umm....wtf is even happening any more. Robin hood has a secret family??? And who was that guy in a panther suit. RANDOM AS F***! LOL ?????If you LOVE confusing white noise this is the movie for you!!!!! "Confusing White Noise: The Movie!"
__label__1 Battleship is bar none the worst movie I have seen in recent years. It is a noisy, clichéd and unbearable piece of trash that exploits the work of CG artists and paying customers who just want to be entertained.A simple way to describe Battleship, is that it's basically a $200 million naval recruitment video that was made by a schizophrenic 8 year old who likes video games and things going Ka-Boom.The main heroes in this movie are indeed American navy sailors, but the one thing the film-makers really failed at is making these people likable and realistic. Taylor Kitsch plays the lead character, he's basically some drop out loser who robs convenience stores to get girlfriends and joins the navy at his brothers behest, and in what seems like no time at all he becomes a lieutenant with big responsibilities on a naval vessel with some few hundred men beneath him. The special effects are the only thing to keep you invested, however they're all completely CG so it just likes a cut-scene from a video game . Something that should be impressive (like a ship sinking) is made pointless because it's something clearly rendered on a computer.The soundtrack to the movie is okay composition wise, but it's often loud and draws attention to itself and it sounds exactly like the Inception soundtrack on numerous occasions.This movie has the shadow of Transformers looming over it, both in its marketing and tone. Battleship however is far, far, far worse than any of those three films and it could probably be used as a symbol for the decline of western civilisation.
__label__1 I ate 4-cheeses tortellini for lunch and then went to see "Battleship". guess which one was cheesier. This movie is terrible and I'll tell you why, but first let me say one thing. This is not how action movies should be made and it is not fair to make bad movies just to cash some money because "hey, it's an action movie!" I don't believe in low class genres: is not a sin to enjoy an action movie, but it should be a good movie anyway! Battleship has an horrible plot, actually nothing happens but it does it in more than 2 hours. God if it was boring! I don't understand how you could ever make a movie with explosions and fast-paced editing sooo boring. There are elements that make to sudden apparitions and too much plot holes. There are some TERRIBLE comic scenes, like the one where the guy is stealing a burrito for his bigtittied trophy. In that moment it becomes American pie, the family guy, epic movie. There's a LOT of FAKE lens flare. I don't understand why, is it a fad now? In super8 they had a meaning, but in battleship there are even more and they really make no sense. Every single clichè, you can find it in here. well, we live in a postmodern period so that's okay, we are used to see old clichés. The problem is that they use them like it is 1980 and it's the first time. If you care about that, the aliens are really a bunch of pussies. They invade earth and the humans have to struggle a little to fight them. Yeah, just because they use only THREE American ships (actual war ships, not space ships) and a couple of airplanes. It's the lamest alien invasion ever! Don't watch this movie because is really really bad. What could I expect from a movie inspired by the eponymous game? The premise seems a parody from youtube actually.
__label__1 I have written very few reviews on IMDb, I simply do not have the time, but on this occasion things are different. This movie could have been so good, yet it is truly awful. I am a total advocate of having fun at movies and suspending belief but in this movie, even attempting to do that is interrupted by shocking characters with shocking lines. If people reacted in real life like many of these do in the movie, you could be forgiven for shooting them on sight.The main character played by Taylor Kitsch is so annoying, so arrogant, so stupid so utterly imbecilic that for him to be allowed in uniform would be a slur on a nations entire armed forces. He seems to have adopted a role trying to emulate bad boy comes good Chris Pine as Kirk in the 2009 excellent movie Star Trek. But it doesn't work and he displays himself as a complete and utter loser in every respect, and frankly the screen writers should not work again. Every cliché possible is thrown in, trying to make what is termed 'an extinction event' funny. As aliens battle to use an earth array radar to communicate with their planet and bring on the destruction of the planet, the geek in charge of the array who knows everything about it says 'what! are they trying to phone home like ET'??? Shoot that man!I am saddened that Liam Neeson's bank balance is so low that he needed to take on his role in this movie. If he was that short of cash, had he just put an ad on IMDb I am sure we would have all chipped in $5 each to keep him out of this disaster. The boys and girls in the CG room did an awesome job, but it was so unoriginal with all the trappings of Transformers that whilst technically superb it was just all pointless. Just where have they spent $200 000 000 ? It must all be in CG or was it the fee for Rihanna? Whatever, the budget for this movie would have been better spent on saving some third world country from economic disaster.At the end it becomes clear that whoever the military adviser was, whatever their sins during the main part of the movie, should definitely have been sacked and not paid. Our main character the man who has led a team of misfits to save the entire planet is awarded ...the 'Silver Star', the third highest award the military can give. Where was the medal of honour? the top banana, they must have been limited as only one was given to our main mans dead brother, who did nothing other than stand on the bridge of a ship and get blown up (apart from also putting up with his cretin brother for which he definitely deserved the award).In summary, totally disappointing. To base a movie on the Hasbro game of Battleships was always going to be a challenge, are we now going to face movies based on snakes and ladders and 'frustration'? Too many agendas were hidden in this movie to ensure a politically correct Hollywood ra ra ra conclusion. There were many points in the movie where I totally wanted the Aliens to succeed and destroy the planet, as it's occupants were proving that there was no intelligent life here. If you are dragged along to this movie then maybe just put your iphone on silent and play angry birds or some other garbage game to keep yourself entertained, or better still play Battleships.
__label__1 Let me just start by saying, I don't think this movie deserves a score of 1, but I had to rank it that low because currently the score is a gross misrepresentation of reality. This is not a movie which deserves to be compared with all of the great cinema masterpieces mankind has made.I just watched the semi-new Jurassic Park movie and I must say, I thought it was very, very stupid. I hate the trend in modern movies where everything bad that happens is always caused by people being stupid and doing stupid things. Like literally people making 10-20 Darwin Award ideas every movie. Literally in this movie, there is a big "Super T-Rex" dinosaur which is running around, and someone thinks that the proper move is to release a bunch of smaller Raptors to go hunt it down... like... what the hell...? You MUST be kidding. Raptors are PREY for T-Rex. It is a smaller predator which presents ZERO threat to the T-Rex, but MAXIMUM threat to humans. No human being who doesn't have a permanent retard helmet strapped to their head would have ever made that "executive decision". That's as stupid as sending a bunch of hunting dogs to go kill a Lion which is on the loose. Or a bear or something. And we are all little furry bunnies or something, so the dogs could easily just kill us for fun anyways. It is obvious that Raptors are only effective at killing small, human-sized prey... it just makes no sense. It is nothing but FRUSTRATING for the viewer, we're sitting here frowning and saying to ourselves, "nobody would EVER do that!".Anyways, MAJOR PLOT decision by the producing team... and it was a total disaster.. They should have gone back to the white board and came up with another plot idea.Another thing I hate are those STUPID ANNOYING scenes where everyone is running and frantically screaming in fear all around you, but the main characters are just standing there talking to each other like nothing is going on, just having a little chit-chat while there's dinosaurs running around, and people dying. Or when the two boys were running away from the T-Rex and then they got to the edge of a waterfall, but instead of jumping without hesitation like any normal person who is about to die would have done, they turn to each other and say "Are you ready to jump? Let's do it together, OK? On the count of three, one... two... THREE, JUMP!" Seriously, F that scene. That sh*t pisses me off so much.Stuff like that just makes a movie seem silly and stupid to me. I can't get "drawn in" where I feel the tension, and feel like I'm right there experiencing the adventure with the characters. Instead, I'm constantly reminded that I'm watching the product of mega-producers and corporations, who think the general population is only interested in special effects and explosions and beautiful people saying stupid lines. I remember watching the first movie, and as the final scene was closing and they were flying away from the island, I breathed a heavy sigh of relief, because I felt like I had JUST BARELY escaped the same dangers as the main characters had. I felt like I was there the whole time. But when I finished the newer, more "modern" JURASSIC WORLD, I felt zero emotion, absolutely nothing as the movie was ending. Instead, I just thought to myself "Well, those were some really cool special effects, the movie sure had a large budget!" In order for a movie to be captivating and really give the viewers a unique experience, you must mesmerize them and put them in a trance where they forget they are watching a movie. All those STUPID, HORRIBLY UNREALISTIC lines, actions, and mistakes made by the cast throughout the entire movie do nothing but slap me on the face each time it happens, only to remind me that I am, in fact, watching a movie.I would watch the first original Jurassic Park movie 10 times before I watch Jurassic World again! >:[
__label__1 Two decades after the original Jurassic Park, the company behind it is overcome with greed and decides to capitalise on the dinos once again, but since everyone has seen Whatevertheirnameis-sauruses by now, they need to create new monsters to keep the "Wow" factor up.So it decides to produce the movie Jurassic World, in which, two decades after the original Jurassic Park, the company behind it is overcome with greed and decides to capitalise on the dinos once again, but since everyone has seen Whatevertheirnameis-sauruses by now, they need to create new monsters to keep the "Wow" factor up.It's either an irony of fate or a sly jab at the ever-fossilising motion picture industry that the storyline of the film and the narrative of its conception are so strikingly similar. And I'm afraid I'm not inclined to thinking it was intentional.As ridiculous as the premise of the film is – fill Dino Island with people, let a number of scary ones loose, and then indulge in blood and screams and make sure the obligatory two lead kids get away in the end, where on Earth have we seen that before? – as poorly written the script is. Apparently, the first draft only took three weeks to throw together. I'm surprised it didn't happen in three hours. Loose ends are dangling all over the place like severed sinews from consumed tourists, the archetypal characters are nothing but a poor joke of the ones in the original trilogy (geeky and untidy computer nerd, lone hero scientist who understands that life doesn't follow spreadsheets, greedy business execs who want to make money from the monsters, and lo and behold, the Nasty Military Man who wants to weaponise them, et cetera ad nauseam), and when characters actually have to TELL each other to "RUUUUUUUN!" instead of standing still, waiting to become a quick snack, palm goes firmly on face, at least for this reviewer.You're-a-sick World indeed. Could someone please apply a suitably large nuclear bomb onto Isla Nublar, so that we won't have to endure a Jurassic 5.
__label__1 Much like Jurassic World, this load of junk was created purely to rake in the dollar.Apparently it's OK to show the world... AGAIN... live goats waiting to be eaten, pigs going to be ripped to shreds by teams of raptors and people being torn to pieces, but when a dino dies the violins begin and the female lead trots around a dinosaur paddock in 6 inch heels and a cream suit, suitably panting and puffing, chest rising, falling, splayed on the ground, all vulnerable and waiting... I was wishing so hard that the Rex would eat her... it might have saved the entire load of nonsense.The usual totally stupid script, but at least the first movie was original, the second annoying and the third intriguing... this movie is just terrible repeat, repeat, repeat... gosh, even down to a cell phone incident... wow... not a single original moment, the usual interchangeable Hollywood actors that I'll never remember and loads and loads of stupidity and artifice. Garbage. The one redeeming feature is for about 5 seconds you get to see astoundingly beautiful nature. First time I've loathed Vincent D'Onofrio and I never thought I'd say that. The other actors could have been pulled straight out of Days of our Lives, complete with faces that did not move a muscle, even when in a state of supposed terror. Who willingly makes this kind of utter trash? I hope this is the last one. Leave the dino's where they belong, in the past!Totally forgettable and moronic waste of time. Thank goodness I didn't pay for the DVD and thank goodness I borrowed it and was able to give it back, flying across the room.
__label__1 **** This Review May Contain Spoilers*** I ordered this movie because IMDb showed a 7 star rating. I don't understand how this movie could have deserved a 7. A new dinosaur has been created that is so smart it removes a tracking device from it's own body so that it can't be tracked. It tricks the handlers into thinking it left its cage by lowering it's heat signature. I fast forwarded the last 1/3 of the movie because curiosity got the better of me. I had to see how the script writers were going to dig themselves out of this one. Flying dinosaurs are loosed but the story ends without resolving this little fact. Driving a motorcycle among Raptors, which apparently have been programmed to work with the protagonists. Bad script and bad acting. Don't waste your time.
__label__1 I am giving this title a 1 in an attempt to bring down the score that it does not currently deserve.This movie had its cool moments, but mostly just dumb.Way too many special effects and just unrealistic scenarios. e.g. At one point a woman in high heels is outrunning a T-rex. Remember in the original Jurrasic park the T-Rex was chasing down a Jeep at top speed!No spoilers but the ending is terrible and cheesy.Chris Pratt is pretty much just an extra in his own movie.It's a shame that it got so much hype that they are already planning the sequel. I am glad I got free cinema tickets when I saw this and didn't pay any money.
__label__1 Took my 12 year old son to see this and he hated it! I can't believe I wasted $24 to see this movies in 3D! Take the original script, remove the great acting, add more super dumb people and an even dumber script, add more dinosaurs and you have Jurassic World. To the younger generation who cares nothing for good acting and well thought out scripts and only cares about hot looking guys and girls and more CGI graphics, this film might be amazing. If I did not know better, I would have thought that this was a poorly made parody (spoof), made to poke fun at the original Jurassic Park movie.Save your money and wait for it to come out on netflix. Even then it would be a waste of time though.
__label__1 One of the worst films I have ever seen. Every single scene was flawed and had errors. From beginning to end the movie had mistake after mistake. Now most movies have one or two mistakes and you just over look it but when it happens in every scene of the movie, you can't just wave it to one side.For example, when Bond leaves the London underground and starts running to save M. Here we have TWO errors. Firstly, M does not do MP's committee meetings and secondly, why does Bond run half way across London to get to her? Why not stop one of the police officer's to either drive him or to give him the car? There are so many errors, like I already said in EVERY single scene of the movie.Few others that I still remember are such as the opening scene, why does Eve who just mistakenly shot Bond with an automatic rifle not then open fire on the bad guy? How did Bond even survive such a drop? How did he end up in the arms of a beautiful woman on a beach? How did Eve even miss shooting him jumping on the train earlier? Why did the bad guy who had an automatic pistol and had Bond pinned down behind a wooden market stall decide to jump on a motorbike rather than to kill him? Why did the police bikers even drive straight towards a man firing a weapon? How did Eve even turn up with a vehicle just as Bond left the building? So many errors and so many gaps and that's just the first 8 minutes! I can go on and on and on. EVERY scene had massive errors, Even the Aston Martin DB5 scene, how comes Bond has it? Why would he even run away with M and get her killed? Are the SAS on strike? How did Bond leave the casino in Macau after killing 3 bodyguards? Does a large casino only have 3 security guards? Why even would they fight? Surely they would have just shot him as soon as he enters the casino? Javier Bardem's baddie character was ridiculous and comical. It was totally unbelievable, even an 8 year old wouldn't believe the storyline. Poor acting and the camp/gay innuendos were painful to watch. I couldn't believe what I was watching.This was an appalling movie. It relied on Judi Dench to hold it all together. Sadly I am not able to give it a 0 so I will give it 1/10. No action in the movie what so ever after the opening scene. Two men hugging on top of a train has been done so many times. Pathetic movie and the only people who will enjoy this are the brain dead. Shame on critics who were saying this was the best Bond movie ever, you should be ashamed of yourselves.I used to like Daniel Craig as Bond but thanks to this movie I now dislike him too. Well done to Sam Mendes and Co, it takes a certain amount of talent or the lack of it to single handedly destroy Bond. The hero in this movie was the final credits, the real baddie in this movie was the man behind the camera.
__label__1 There are so many things wrong with this movie. Most of the elements of a good Bond movie aren't there.The locations aren't well used. The Istanbul roof top & Bazaar chase has already been shown in "Taken 2" and the TV show "Missing". Dejavu. The way they showed 'Shanghai' and 'Macau' at night it could have been filmed anywhere. The Scottish countryside shown was so grim.Where are the cars and gadgets? Nothing but the old Aston Martin. Just that pistol and tracker. The new Q is so ineffective. The villain played by Javier Bardem. He is more comical than sinister. With the blond fright wig, the campy overtures and the most frightening of all, the dentures this must the most absurd bad guy in Bond history.The climax feels cheap and conventional. They must have run out of money for the second half. Such a stupid idea to bring M to that run down Scottish house. With the home made defences and geriatric defenders, it felt like Home Alone meets the Golden Girls. Might as well have asked Betty White or grandma to join in. The new Bond girl Berenice Marlohe is exotic and fascinating to look at. But why only one? Writing her out of the show so early and not having another was a mistake. The Bond girl is supposed to end up saved by Bond with a hook up at the end. Unless you consider M a Bond girl.The focus of the movie is M. Judi Dench was always too provincial looking for MI6. The only good thing about this movie is that Ralph Fiennes is replacing her. Finally. There was no need to dedicate a whole movie to her farewell. Daniel Craig is just so haggard he looks worse than the villain. It's time to replace him with someone younger and handsomer. Baffled by the good reviews. Be warned we are being short changed.
__label__1 Like thousands of others I am a Bond fan and although we all have differing views on what Bond should be, we all expect a good Bond movie to be an escape from our day to day lives. A glamorous life full of suspense and intrigue. Skyfall has no suspense, intrigue or glamour (save for Berenice) and as such is not escapism and not a 'Bond film'. Casino Royale was a Bond film and a very good one at that, so this mess isn't Craig's fault.Like others I also saw terrible sets especially Skyfall Lodge which looked like something from a sixties TV series, crossroads or it's a knockout!Also I noticed clear as day Craig's stuntman on several occasions, completely ruining for me the roof top motorbike chase. Continuity errors all over the place not worthy of a Bond film from any era.Q was miscast and his specs were embarrassing, all wrong wrong wrong.The new Moneypenny should never sleep with Bond and Naomie Harris cannot act to save herself.Berenice Marlohe is amazing, an incredible actress and totally stunning. My one point out of ten is all for her!Another weird thing about this Bond.....nobody mentions 'Britain' only 'England' - is this a future proofed Bond ready for Scottish independence?! England is mentioned several time but not Britain anymore even though we saw union jacks but no George flag. A small point to some but a major puzzle to some, what is this all about?Never ever did I have all these concerns watching a Bourne movie or even the brilliant TV series Homeland, in these productions you never stop to think 'this isn't real' because it is all done so well that you just get wrapped up in it all. Not so this film for me, so so many errors that I couldn't wait to get out of the cinema. Above all this film bored me and depressed me, something I have never said about any Bond film before, not even Q of Solace.The real puzzle for me is who likes it? My straw poll of 11 people has brought up 8 who disliked it and felt tricked, with the rest not bothered either way so how come all the hype? How come all the glowing professional reviews? It's almost 'the king has no clothes' situation isn't it? Or maybe all the pro UK stuff in our Olympic year of celebration has made everyone lose their objectiveness.Either way I have yet to meet anyone who thought this was a great movie.
__label__1 As you can tell by username, I'm a fan of a certain comic book character whom this (terrible) movie have ruined. However, I don't want to make it look as if the only thing that is wrong with this movie is how it mishandles that character - hell no. This movie is bad, no doubt. But the reason why it's bad has nothing to do with the way this movie mishandles that particular character. My main gripe about this movie is the script. The script is awful by all accounts. I understand that not every comic book movie can have a well-written script that is on the level of Nolan's Batman films, but I at least expect something tolerable. This? This is JUNК! A big, stinky, poorly put together JUNК. The characters are inept caricatures with no personalities. The story is basically Incredibles meets Lethal Weapon, but only it's not as fun or entertaining as those movies. It must really suck if you as a screenwriter can't make your own movie and you have to steal ideas from lame cartoon that was made decade ago. But besides terrible screenplay - make no mistake - the movie has the most incompetent direction imaginable. Even with a bad script you can make decent movie if you are capable filmmaker. Unfortunately, whatever credentials Shane Black had in the past, it doesn't matter here. Here, his awful direction is unbearable. The tone is flimsy, the character interaction is lame, the story structure is poorly connected. If you had told me that this movie was directed by a crippled dog with a brain tumor, I would believe you. But, what is also terrible, is that Robert Downey Jr. doesn't care anymore. His acting is mediocre at very best. There is no emotional impact from his acting. It feels very superficial and forced. And now, imagine, that besides all those glaring problems, you also have the twist with the main villain - The Mandarin. The Mandarin twist in this movie is the equivalent to this: imagine if you had big pile of crаp, and then on top of that pile of crаp someone would had poured a bucket of pіss. That's basically the definition of Mandarin's twist in this movie. All in all, if you want a good Iron Man vs. Mandarin story, that is fun, entertaining, smart, and action-packed, go get trade paperbacks of Enter The Mandarin, Dragon Seed Saga, Hands of the Mandarin, Revenge of the Mandarin, and The Future. Those stories are what this movie should've been.
__label__1 First of all the mandarin is fake. Shane Black may be the worst director of our time. Why on earth would you take the mandarin, one of MARVELs greatest villains and turn him into a British drunk guy?! When Shane Black sat down and started working on this film was he thinking "hey I'm going to make iron man 3 the worst MARVEL film of all time. Oh and while I'm at it ill go ahead and make a joke of the mandarin"? I have no clue how MARVEL is going to recover from this tragic event. The only good thing about this "film" is RDJ. I left the theater wishing it were just a bad dream and that when i awoke Jon Favreau would be the director. Shane Black shouldn't be allowed to direct a cereal commercial after what he did to MARVEL.The Mandarin is fake.
__label__1 The first one was average, the second diabolical. I thought surely this will be an improvement ?. But on no, this is just awful. Really really bad. The plot is stupid and makes little sense, the action totally unrealistic and half the villains have crazy x-men type powers which is not properly explained how it came about. The humor is tacky and quite honestly its the worst film I've seen for a long time.All the old tacky clichés are in abundance, scenes are repeated from the second film time and time again, its like watching the same film half of the time.Please pray they never make another!
__label__1 Written, produced, and directed by Shane Black, this inept 2013 superhero flick has become a Rocky Horror-style cult favorite. Robert Downey Jr. stars as an eerily placid superhero whose live-in girlfriend is tired of him, while there's a bad guy on the horizon (yet again), seeking to destroy his life. Sounds like basic stuff for this kind of movie, but this movie manages to screw up even such basic premise. The filmmaker often strikes out in different directions, only to bump into the wall and come back. As someone who's watched more bad movies than you can imagine, I'm mostly immune to the so-bad-it's-good aesthetic, though I can see how, viewed in a theater at midnight after a few drinks, this might conjure up its own hilariously demented reality. Poignantly, Black has now repositioned the movie as a "black comedy." (I guess he loves him some puns.)
__label__1 Other reviews have covered exactly how bad this movie is.If you love Iron Man, Iron Man 2 and Avengers Movie it will be natural to want to go and see this movie but my advice would be to stay away from this one as it will leave a sour taste, gut wrenching feeling, I am dumbfounded that Marvel has let this movie be released like this.The soul of the first 2 movies and the Iron Man character in Avengers has been stripped bare and replaced with something that wouldn't be out of place in a Scary Movie Film.Issues with the movie are as follows:Background music from the start of the movie is wrong and doesn't compliment what you are used to from an Iron Man / Marvel movie. - RDJ spends most of the movie out of the suit and he has seemed to gain a lot of quick martial arts skills and reflexes similar to something in a Bourne Movie. - Don Cheadle's character is irrelevant and spends most of the movie out of his suit. - Don't get me started with the Mandarin character. - Little boy in the movie doesn't serve any purpose what so ever. - Most of the characters are shallow and you have no feeling for them. - The wit and charm of previous movies is replaced with unfunny gags and one liners that don't work. - The movie tries too hard to be cool instead of being natural.I could go on and on about how poor this movie really was, I was in the Cinema thinking to myself am I really experiencing this? WTF is this I am watching.Shane Black and anyone who agreed to release this movie, hang your heads in shame and find a new career. This is unacceptable!!!!
__label__1 I am shocked by both this movie and my visceral reaction to it. Unlike Avatar, which used the 3D technology as an integral part of the movie, 3D adds nothing to this movie. And frankly, the glasses darken the screen so much that the already dimmed image (thanks to projectors that aren't as bright as they used to be) was pretty bland. Let me state for the record, for anyone who doesn't know, the movie conflates the two books, and adds in Jabberwocky for the hell of it. And back story (19 year old Alice is about to marry the wrong man (she was too old for Lewis Carroll). The Queen of Hearts becomes the Red Queen. And the Knaves of Hearts become a cross between the clone robots for Star Wars:Clone Wars and sow bugs. 1. A bland, blond, Victorian Dorothy Gale lives in Kansas, er, England, and is about to marry a prig. She has recurring nightmares about Oz, er, Wonderland, er, Underland, and falls down the rabbit hole. Unlike The Wizard of Oz, there is really no sense of wonder when she opens the door from her black and white existence (filmed in color, which ruins the supposed effect) to Wonderland. Nor does Alice exhibit and curiosity or joy at being in Wonderland. The actress registers no emotion about anything. 2. Johnny Depp used to be a wonderful actor in quirky films. His movies now resemble the parodies that Carol Burnett used to do on her show. (Sweeney Todd being the exception). He has now ruined to wonderful movies, with a lot of help from Tim Burton: Charlie And The Chocolate Factory was excruciating in its twee-ness. And as with Alice, added too much back story and robbed the original Roald Dahl's original book of both its charm and character, while only emphasizing how amazing the original movie was. This movie adds all of the current techno bells and whistles and still can't compare to Disney's own animated version. 3. Tim Burton used to make interesting movies about interesting people with interesting actors: Ed Wood, Edward Scissorhands (what happened to that Johnny Depp?) More Sweeney, less fantasy, please.4. Why do Anne Hathaway's arms not straighten? What's up with that?EVerything that makes Lewis Carroll Lewis Carroll has been leached out of this movie.
__label__1 Here is a tale of two Lewises. One wrote a small but great children's book that still delights, surprises and enchants. The other wrote a large, artistic series of children's books that push Christian sermons at us in the guise of adventure fantasy. The first author, Lewis Carroll, wrote Alice in Wonderland. The second, CS Lewis, wrote the Narnia saga. Here is what happened – in my theory – when the light bulb went on above the head of Linda Woolverton, who wrote the original screenplay for the new Alice in Wonderland."What if we turn Wonderland into Narnia? What if an older Alice revisits her dream world, now called Underland, and discovers a giant battle in progress between good and evil? We could have a Red Queen's army fighting a White Queen's, a Mad Hatter as saintly mediator, and a lot of Armageddon spectacle sure to bring in the youngsters and spawn a video game."Thus is Hell born. You cannot believe the dreadfulness of Tim Burton's Alice in Wonderland – gifted director takes on gaga script – until you see it. Enchantment has gone that-away. Once down the rabbit hole Alice, played with brave but doomed grace by Australian actress Mia Wasikowska, discovers that her old chums all walk a darkening land bearing Tolkienish/Lewisite names. The dormouse is Mallymkun, the Cheshire cat Chessur, the caterpillar Absolem. Soon the throng is joined by dragons who seem to have come from Avatar. The tea party has 10 seconds to flatter us with incipient charm – its chaotic table and moth-eaten March Hare suggest a Samuel Beckett revamp (that would be a good spin) – before it too is sacrificed to sword, sorcery and showdown. Johnny Depp's Mad Hatter shows promise for a little longer – this actor does deranged innocence better than anyone (Edward Scissorhands, Ed Wood) – but finally he too drowns in the Sea of Tacky Bombast.
__label__1 It is amazing that they managed to make a remake that is worse than the original IN EVERY ASPECT. This film looks like a B movie, the animation, styling and scenery are flawlessly default and most of the movie visuals looks like the designers downloaded a pack of 3D stock models and colored them a bit. If you watch a showreel of almost ANY decent animation studio you will see much better and creative stuff than this.The direction is ridiculously non-interesting, some short shots are just plain stupid and I have no idea HOW is THIS possible in this budget. There is no rhythm, there are just a bunch of scenes with a little bit of this and a little bit of that. Sound editing is retarded with voices overlapping each other, atmospheric sounds are sometimes loud and sometimes non-existent. At the scene where the Mad Hatter gives a speech and makes a riot in Queen's castle the cheering crowd sound behind his speech is AWFUL! You can download better crowd samples FOR FREE.Music sounds like a bunch of sampled "ooouuuooo" shitty, spooky loops of crappy classical music in a default Burton way. Acting is WHATEVER and seems like everything was written and shot in 5 days. The voice dubbing of 3D models is worse than the earliest works of Dreamworks.There is no drama, there is no crescendo, there is no playfulness that makes Alice in WONDERLAND such a powerful story. There is not a shred of IMAGINATION here. I mean, even the opening credits look like they were done in 1 hour. To top it all, the song in the ending credits CANNOT be more cheap and that pathetic attempt of the final "DANCE" - some miserable version of a popping' breakdance is disgusting and is on the level of The Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers.Even on a "woman becoming a powerful individual" symbolism level the movie as bland as POSSIBLE.Holy ****, this movie is a humongous piece of an even more gigantic, moronic, generic feces that Hollywood is happily sitting in. Join the feast.
__label__1 You dolts took a meandering, plot less masterpiece and turned it in all seriousness into a soul-less CGI dirge with the same plot that it's source was LAUGHING AT.The Jabberwock is not a dragon. The Jabberwock is the IDEA of a dragon. It wears spats and a waistcoat you DOLTS.The Queen of Hearts never ACTUALLY chops anyone's head off, the Gryphon SAYS SO. There is nothing oppressive or dangerous in Wonderland. Wonderland doesn't make enough SENSE for anything to be dangerous.Where WAS the Gryphon? Where was the Mock Turtle? Where was Bill the Newt? Where was the trial of the Knave of Hearts? Come to that, where were the Mad Hatter, the March Hare and the Dormouse? The Dormouse is a sleepy fat thing that likes treacle, not Reepicheep.Where was the Duchess? Where was the Duchess's cook? Why does everybody make such a big deal out of the Cheshire Cat and the Caterpillar? They're among the least significant characters in the book!Who's this bandersnatch? What's the Jabberwock doing in it at ALL? The Jabberwock's a work of fiction even on the other side of the looking glass!What's all this faux-sinister creeping about with wounds and murky skies and burning buildings and severed heads? You DOLTS. Don't you remember the ending? The oppressive queen, the insulting know-it-all tea-party guests, the bewildering fluctuation in one's own sense of self-importance almost like growing and shrinking, the unhelpful people, the stupid people, the bad-tempered people, yes, and even the hero waving his little magic sword at the scary dragon in a waistcoat and spats, what does Alice say to them? "Who cares for you? You're nothing but a pack of cards!" Your story-telling has regressed to the shuffling of tropes that children were laughing at over a century ago.Did you even READ the book?
__label__1 Imagine having no hope for something and it still managing to let you down. It began with a pleasant waltz through a fairytale, as depicted in Disney's rendition of the brilliant satire-laden wonderment: Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, by Lewis Carrol. It has turned into another epic movie, simply seeking to reach into your pockets, and, with what nostalgia is left since your own childhood, throw the last of your hard earned money at an utter failure in script and creativity, at something that looked as though it couldn't possibly fail this hard (with names such as "Tim Burton" and "Johnny Depp". Let us understand a few things here:-There appears to be no logic process by which the stretching and un-stretching of her attire takes place. It seems that it is simply an idiotic method of plugging fashion.-The CG characters are the most unmemorable since "9" and have about 0 (zero) effect on the story, other than of course, the cat who decides to ruin the only decent possibility of plot in the entire movie.-Alice causes the majority of conflict (the scratch on her arm) by denying medical attention from the Cheshire Cat for no apparent reason other than her idiocy.-The Cheshire Cat ends up being the essential downfall, in my opinion, of the plot, wherein I did indeed sigh loudly and wish that I were anywhere other than in the theater; the cat was used by Burton as a Deus ex Machina in order to save (essentially a plot element that discredits any writer by introducing an exceptionally easy solution to a seemingly impossible problem, with no given expectation that the aforementioned element had such abilities) the character of the Mad Hatter, which is so inconceivably pointless.-For some reason, this attractive girl seems to show some sort of affection towards the Mad Hatter, and he, in turn does the same, which offers up an awkward feeling as this (elderly? I guess that was what they were inferring by the bags under his eyes) Mad Hatter, with his crooked, altogether oddly shaped eyes, hits on our heroine, the perpetually dumbfounded Alice.-One more easily predictable movie, no depth whatsoever; seriously, no thought necessary once you enter into the theater. The humor is sub-par: half the audience chuckled about 3 times during the film. I do believe there was more laughing during the preview of "The Karate Kid" than during the actual movie.-Expect to hear Alice claim that she's in a dream for the majority of the movie, then change her mind until she becomes so confused that smoke literally pours out of her ears.To sum up what you should know before the movie, this movie is utterly useless. The script is nonsense in a way that defies nonsense. Bland characters, with an all-too-common Johnny Depp running around as though he's just woken up from a hangover and mainlined dope into his eyeball. This is Hollywood pumping movies out that it knows will make a couple of bucks. For the love of whatever invisible man you believe in, do not see it.Here are a couple of questions to ask yourself after the movie has ended, because maybe, just maybe, you didn't believe how horrendous it could be.1. WHY does the Mad Hatter slip in and out of a Scottish accent? 2. WHO honestly expected her to become a sailor at the end of this movie? I MEAN WHAT THE ****? REAL GREAT SURPRISE HUH? 3. IF they could change their sizes using this potion, why do the inhabitants not simply make themselves (or Alice) really big and have her just stomp out the Jabberretard? 4. WHY, just WHY does the White Queen have to, at all times, have her hands up in some stupid position? 5. DON'T you wish you had read a review before going?Far more preferential to myself and several of my peers was the plot of American McGee's Alice, which was a severely macabre twist on the wonderland we once knew; also, the writers of Alice knew that in order to keep someone interested there has to be a storyline that involved a climax, or maybe, hold on to your hats folks, a surprise.http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0466663/
__label__1 Oh...the irony of it. As probably many know, Tim Burton started as an employee of Disney. But his work was considered too frightening and surreal, and soon he was fired. Now this movie marked his return. This alone should tell the story. Face it, we never liked Tim Burton for his amazing skill to write dialogues, for the deep characters he create because (not counting Edward Scissorhand) there were none. We liked him because he was a big kid, with a fascinating, dark, twisted imagination. He had style and creativity. Now the kid is all grown up and became a money-hungry prostitute. Sad and harsh. But true. Sweeney Todd was the first sign and this....this piece of... By the way i really had enough of Disney too, they "evolved" completely into a regrettable monstrosity. Poor Lewis Carroll. And poor other artists you ripped off to make ridicoulus amount of money lately. You really have no shame left? When it comes to nowadays Disney i always imagine a scene from an average high-school movie. You know where the strong and dumb jock terrorises the nerd and when the nerd asks why, he says: because i can, you cant stop me. Yes congratulation Disney, a dead artist really cant stop you from completely destroying, ruining, nullifying his work. You really have no shame left? Sadly the answer is pretty clear. The only decent scene was the one with the execution. The other were only eye-candy without any hint of meaning or depth. Oh and congratulation for one more thing, you even managed to completely ruin even the ending credits with that ear-raping dumb teenage-pop-rock whatever piece of trash song too. Its not everyday when a bitter and sour cake is topped so nicely with such a disgusting topping, you really done something extraordenary, but at least it was fitting. Tim Burton will never read this sadly, but for what it worth, i admired his work, now i officially turn my back on everything he creates and let the little goths drool about it, they are still young they might grow out of it someday too.
__label__1 And yet again Tim Burton's ego gets in the way as it did with Willy Wonka seriously thinking that he can improve an age old classic by replacing what he refers to as a mere series of events a little girl stumbles through, with a trite paint by numbers good versus evil story a la: Lord of the Rings Trilogy, Chronicles of Narnia, Golden Compass. He leaves out the magic of the books, the cutting wit, the Topsy turvy absurdity which make the stories so special and a little girl called Alice who's precocious cleverness is way beyond her years. It is not about stifling a director's artistic vision (which every artist has a right to) or reworking of the story but the mere greed and egotistical ambitiousness with which he went after this project, clearly to fatten his pockets. Poor Lewis Carrol is rolling in his grave.
__label__1 I was oh so very excited to see Alice in Wonderland. It was my one of my favorite movies growing up. I even went to the theater in my AiW paraphernalia. I like Tim Burton and I like Disney, do I honestly thought that nothing could go wrong. It did.1. I couldn't find the plot. 2. Most of the acting, especially "Alice's" was absolutely horrible. However, the Red Queen and whoever voiced the Cheshire Cat both did decent jobs. 3. The entire thing was animated. Don't get me wrong, I love animation, but you should at least match the characters to their environment (like Avatar did) instead of making it look like a sloppy cut and paste job. 4. I guessed how the movie was going to play out before "Alice" even got to Wonder-- oh, I mean, UNDERland. 5. I kept waiting for something exciting to happen and... NOTHING DID. There wasn't an obvious moral or message (or at least not a very good one) and there was no reason for her to return to her own world. And the thought of her "discussing business" at the end? No. Just no.I can't think of a clearer way to say this: DON'T WASTE YOUR MONEY.
__label__1 What a over-rated, self-indulgent movie. Right from the inclusion of Johnny Deep in a maddening avatar to Helena Carter as the tyrant witch witch an oblong head, Tim Burton yet makes another movie that is barely watchable and completely loony, in a bad way.Mia Wasikowska stars or rather pales as Alice, devoid of emotion or interest. Her pale, frail look gets on one's nerves as she sleepwalks throughout the film, with an expressionless countenance that feels weakens the movie significantly. The scenes where she is supposed to be brave look rehearsed and forced. In fact, I and my friends got so bugged that we wanted her clothes to fall off so that she could create some stir in the audience!Anne Hathaway, vibrant and exquisite in Rachel Getting Married, gives a superficial portrayal of the kind and loving White Queen. Poor soul is soulless in the movie as she tries hard to be Meryl Streep or Julie Andrews but falters. Why did Tim have to cast her for a role more suitable for an older actress? Though miscast, she at least tries to make a character of her own, unlike Mia, but looks robotic. In fact, she looked like a typical deceiving hag who would bear her fangs anytime. "Oh, she's wearing white! Symbolizes peace. She must be the good one" but unfortunately, she ends up getting wasted. And even though her performance is being berated by a number of viewers, I feel that she at least tries to get into her role. Wish she didn't look so hideous here!Mad Hatter is played by the outlandish Johnny Depp but he too doesn't cast much impact in his half-baked role. None of the characters, including him, connects with the audience. None are very likable. I remember, in Chronicles of Narnia, where though the main four Britishers aren't versatile actors, but the supporting cast shines. Tilda Swinton was towering, tormenting and impactful. Aslan, though not a real character, still was very likable. Here, everyone is mundane and lifeless. Depp still tries to give his fullest but the dreary pace of the film outweighs him since his performance isn't groundbreaking or any of that sort. And I'm not a hater of Johnny or Tim Burton (loved Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, liked Timm's Batman, Johnny's What's eating Gilbert Grape?)Helena plays the Red Queen in a quirky fashion that gets customary and monotonous. She plays the role differently though, not the traditional ones who are mostly staunch and resolute. Instead, she plays a role similar to Meryl Streep's in She-Devil, who gives herself too much airs. She is funny and redeeming for a while. Then she grates because she does the same act throughout the movie and makes her performance one-dimensional.Crispin Grover is tolerable. Tweedledum and Tweedledee are neither funny nor likable, overbearing at times. The story is tedious and the animation prosaic. The real world characters are so full of themselves and don't supply anything to the movie. The final scene is a bit implausible and rushed. Well, it was a long, long, unending journey in the theater for me. Certainly a huge disaster from a talented guy. 1 out of 10 stars and a thumbs down.
__label__1 The Good: It did not give me cancer.The Bad: Alice in Wonderland is a treasure of classic literature, and classic Disney. Well it was. That all changed with the latest abortion by Tim Burton. AIW was easily, the lamest, contrived, nonsensical piece of crap that has ever made me want to gouge my eyes out whilst watching it. And I use the above terms of nonsensical and lame, in the most disrespectful ways possible. Gone was the innocence, whimsy, curiosity, and dare I say magic, of the novel and the Disney animated classic. In its place, a wooden, funny looking actress whose range of emotions went from "oh, a fly just landed on my plate" to "oh, a dog. and it's brown." Those last two situations didn't actually occur, however, they may have been more interesting than what had.I am literally shocked. How one could take a piece of literature (and film, in numerous outings) and turn it to "that", is beyond my level of comprehension. This proves to me beyond a shadow of a doubt that Tim Burton can no longer be regarded as a genius, or even a competent storyteller. He has become a quirky nightmare with a lot of money and fantastic art director. To boot, Johnny Depp has become an unwatchable characterization of himself, a bad parody, that seriously needs to stop, and much like the director, needs to get back the formula of Ed Wood and Edward Scissorhands. I'm blown away by how poor this film was. I went in with zero expectations, and it surpassed them in a negative sense. In a rating of 1 to 10, I give this film a burial at sea, so no one can urinate on it any more than Tim Burton already has. Oh, and Avril Lavine does the end music. She is to art what small pox is to life. Let me add, I get it. It was supposed to be a follow up, or sequel, or something along those lines. Something of an homage piece if you will. This was not executed. In the least. The dialog was barely audible and both mixed and pronounced to the poorest degree. The plot was quick, the inside jokes quicker and hackney, the plot spoon fed and completely forced. This film disgusts me. It's everything wrong with modern Hollywood cinema directed at a younger generation, and even to my own. Once again, a treasured tale from youth and fond cinematic memory now has an blemish, thanks to this. Tim Burton needs to stop adapting loved literature. Like, now. The Ugly: I sort of wish it gave me cancer so if (and when) they do make a (gasp)sequel, I'd be dead long before the trailer came out. Or would at least have bigger problems on my hands.
__label__1 I had high expectations for this film, as well as everyone else, but I didn't think it would be another Burton flop. The 3-D was just a last-minute money gimmick; there was nothing jumping out or anything exciting as one would expect with 3-D. On to the movie, it was your typical Burton film, the over-usage of Johnny Depp and Helena Carter, though Alan Rickman is in it, I enjoy his acting, not so much JD or HC's. Also, the way Burton changes the story somewhat bothered me; the Alice-defeating-the-Jabborwocky (misspelled, I know) just ruined the main idea of being in Wonderland, which wasn't even CALLED Wonderland throughout the film. The use of pigs was another thing that caught me by surprise; Burton must've had some of the caterpillar's smoke when he put that part in the film. Tim Burton has disappointment many fans, including myself and I hope that he doesn't create another monstrosity like this, hopefully not Wizard of Oz.I give it 2 stars for the poor remastering of a storybook classic.
__label__1 The final arc in the X-Men franchise has finally landed. Let me start this review by saying that X2 was and is a hard act to follow. In my humble opinion, it might be the best comic book movie ever made. Even Bryan Singer would have had a hell of a time topping that bad boy. So does X-Men 3 live up to the hype? The short answer is, of course, no. There are some extremely fundamental problems with this film's script which should have been addressed long before one bit of celluloid started to roll.The story opens with flashbacks of a young Jean being recruited to the school by a young Xavier and Magneto. This scene lulled me into a feeling that maybe this would be an awesome movie. The next scene, a young Warren Worthington trying in vain to slice off his wings, also works well. However, when his character amounts to little more than a glorified cameo, this scene becomes completely pointless. We're led to believe that this is a character we should care for, and then he gets tossed out almost immediately. After the set up we are thrust into the meat of the story. The X-Men are still reeling from Jean Grey's sacrifice in X2 and are training a new group of muties to fill out the leather uniforms. We get to see precious little of them working as a team, however. I thought the point of a team story was to show how they interact? Apparently, along with Halle Berry's upgraded role came the stipulation that she can only share the screen with one mutant at a time. Since most people are familiar with the plot line here's a super-short rundown. Magneto and X-Men clash and a small war breaks out. There's a mutant cure and a few members die. Boredom ensues. I've never felt so utterly detached from a movie. It could have to do with the overdone musical score, terrible dialog, or countless errors and goofs. It's a movie that utterly ruins a perfectly viable franchise. I felt pained after watching this.WHAT WORKED- Multiple Man! This guy had like two minutes of total screen time, but he ruled both of them. He's a cocky, sarcastic mutant who is literally his own best friend. I learned more about him in two lines than I did from Storm in three movies. - Iceman/Pyro. I've always loved the way these two interact, from the first hint of rivalry in X-Men to the museum scene in X2. My only complaint was that there is no real resolution. Iceman head-butts Pyro, end of story. The entire fight was in the trailer. If there had just been a few more seconds of dialog, or perhaps a Pyro death scene, this would have been perfect. - Beast (sometimes.) Kelsey Grammar did a fine job. I dug his look and overall approach to Beast. The scene in which he meets Leech is very well done. -Fastball Special. Any comic geek will tell you that this is a classic comic book moment which is a joy to see in action.WHAT DIDN'T WORK-Halle Berry. We get it, you're a star. Get over yourself and share the stage with someone else. Miss Berry may be an Oscar winner, but she also did Catwoman. In my opinion, two movies with storm was enough, kick her ass out and bring back... -Cyclops. Hey, here's an idea! Let's take the X-Men team leader and emotional anchor of the phoenix storyline and kill him off in ten minutes so storm can do more. Yeah, that worked real well. If his death had served a purpose I wouldn't have minded. But it seemed to me that they were killing him off just to punish James Marsden for doing Superman Returns. -Juggernaut, Bitch! Wow, talk about misused. juggernaut is a cool character and I love Vinnie Jones, but that is quite a miscast part. And he spends most of the movie looking mad and making stupid one-liners. And his big finish? Hitting his head on a wall! -Beast (Mostly.) The hook for Beast in the movie is that he's conflicted. When he first sees what Leech is capable of there is a beautiful moment where we can see his conflict. Then, like nothing has happened, he makes his choice and stands with the X-Men. That was wrapped up way too easily.ERRORS/PLOT HOLES -In X2 the phoenix entity was fiery and red when Jean accessed it. In this one she just turns dead looking...how's that work? - The X-Men fly from New York to San Fransisco very quickly. This is, I guess, plausible because they have a super-sonic blackbird jet. However, Angel shows up in the thick of the fight as well. We can assume he wasn't on the jet because they didn't show him. Are we to believe that with his little feather wings he can fly the same speed as the blackbird? - Magneto is shown playing chess all by his lonesome in the park at the conclusion of the movie. This plot hole was so huge I didn't even pick up on it at first. Shouldn't he be, like, IN JAIL!? They spend half the movie looking for him, then when the entire U.S. army is only feet away from him, and he loses his power, he is somehow able to slip away? **Here's the grand-daddy plot hole of them all** -Jean has such a powerful mutation that she cannot control it. She claims the only way to stop her is to die, as she is constantly begging Logan for death. However, her power is a result of mutation and in the movie they have rendered a cure for that. You see where I'm going with this? Why don't you geniuses just cure her? That is the epitome of crappy writing. How a plot hole that big even made it into a second draft of the script is mind boggling.
__label__1 MASSIVE SPOILERS AHEAD -Last night I went to watch the German premiere of what I hoped would be the triumphant finale in the X-Men trilogy. I had purposefully ignored all early reviews and news about the film, I didn't even know that Bryan Singer had left the project - believe me, after ten minutes of the movie, I knew he had.I won't bother to go into the story here, as in fact, there are almost five or six story lines from the comics collapsed into this movie, none of them working at all. It almost seems as if three different movies had been made and then just cut together. Jean Grey as Phoenix is so badly developed that it amounts to an insult to any fan of the comic book. During the final battle she just stands around in the background for -literally- twenty minutes until she decides to annihilate San Francisco, obviously for the sole purpose of creating a "cool" FX sequence. To see just how much the production team obviously disrespects the intelligence of the audience, watch how day turns to night from one shot to another after Magneto moves the Golden Gate Bridge to Alcatraz. My jaw dropped at witnessing such a massive continuity error.Brett Ratner obviously has no love or respect whatsoever for the comics or even the previous films, as is displayed by the following creative disasters that riddle this movie:Nightcrawler, who was a visually entrancing and emotionally interesting character in the last installment has mysteriously disappeared from the X-Men...Rattner introduces new Mutants left right and center without developing their character or even their motivation one bit - something Singer paid great attention to. The best example is the prison breakout, where Magneto frees Multiple Man and the Juggernaut, both of whom agree to join his cause without even knowing who he is or what his cause is.The costume design of the Juggernaut is indescribably ridiculous and makes every scene featuring him unintentionally funny. Think Hercules meets the Flintstones.Gone is the subtle, inventive dialog from parts 1 and 2. It is replaced by clichéd phrases that are delivered by a visibly unmotivated cast, Hugh Jackman being the best example, a mere shadow of himself. For every funny one-liner in this movie, there are at least ten that will make you wince.Cyclops is killed off like a character from a bad soap opera in the first ten minutes of the movie. It is inexcusable to remove such a vital character in such a disrespectful manner and I feel sorry for James Marsden for having to go out on a whimper like he did.The list goes on and on.This movie is the sudden demise of what Brian Singer turned into one of the great franchises and I can only imagine how he must feel at seeing what the producers are willing to do for a quick buck.Anybody who liked the first two movies, likes the comic book, or has any respect for decent film-making - I ask you to save your ten bucks and not hand it to the makers of what is a failure of character and creativity in every respect.Thanks for reading.
__label__1 I just left a sneak preview for this movie and I could not be more disappointed. The only people that will enjoy this film are the ones that know absolutely nothing about the X-Men. Shame on Avi Arad and Lauren Shuler Donner for allowing this terrible representation to be completed and released. After watching the first two X-Men films, I was positive this would be amazing, mind-blowing, and above and beyond any fan's expectations. Instead it did not even try to meet those expectations. Please do not continue to read if you do not want to read about details of the film.There is one redeeming quality for this movie: Storm is actually powerful. Took them long enough to use her character properly.I don't know whose idea it was to try and cram everything they possibly could into one film, but it really should have been reconsidered. The Danger Room finally appears, but only for a few minutes and there is no mention of its name, or purpose. In this scene a Sentinel is destroyed, but again no mention of why they are fighting a giant robot, or what it is called.Next, the entire Phoenix story should have been ignored for this film. Jean Grey returns only to be a fireless Phoenix that resembles a psychotic demon rather than an all-powerful goddess. Not only is her return repulsive, but she kills Cyclops almost immediately in the film. Although I understand this cannot follow the comic book exactly, something that should not change is that Jean Grey's love for Cyclops is what gives her the strength to overcome the Phoenix and ultimately take her own life. In the film, Wolverine kills Jean Grey/Phoenix, even though in the comics his character's love for Jean Grey prevented this action. Not to mention earlier in the film Phoenix tossed Wolverine around like a rag doll, but could not take him down at the end of the movie. At least they could have pitted Storm against the Phoenix in the finale, but instead we are left with another stabbing.This movie attempts so much, but accomplishes so little. It introduces Angel, whose part is almost nonexistent. Why did I see him in a million promo shots of him wearing a X-Men uniform, but not once does he wear it in the film? They should have just killed Rogue. She is the only X-Men member that seeks out the "cure". It's bad enough her character's powers resembled nothing of her comic book counterpart, but did they really have to take away what little power she had? Does this film ever say Shadowcat, Colossus, Psylocke, Angel, Beast, Danger Room, Sentinel, or Multiple Man? If it does it is very quick and quite lacking in explanation. It's oddly insulting because you have to be a fan to know who the characters are, but the story and world has been altered so much it creates frustration knowing this will be the best representation of these characters in the film world.The only way this film would work is if another one was coming out next week to portray Phoenix correctly, reconsider who lives and dies, reverse the cure, and actually identify key characters and elements by their names. This could have been one of the best movies ever made. The stories of the X-Men are identifiable, spectacular, and emotionally charged. This falls flat as just a summer special effects film with some creepy parts.
__label__1 So thinking of catching this movie? A fan of the first, and in some cases the second, films... Listen to what the people on here are saying and DO NOT bother. It's too late for those of us who have seen it, but if you haven't, save yourselves!!I've been going through the mountainous collection of comments on this movie, and in summary they all largely agree this is truly incompetent rubbish at its best. However, the comments have all taken the easy route of simply blaming Brett Ratner. Guys, c'mon we know Ratner is a hack, thoughtless, untalented and yes only the fates know how the heck he became a director. But let us not forget he is not the only culprit to the ruination of this trilogy. Indeed X3 was begun by Bryan Singer (he was moved to Superman) so we cannot discount the fact he started this tripe.But let's ignore the failed direction of the movie and consider the real problem. The writers. The plot is so boring and ill conceived it's laughable. The writers, its best their names are not spoken, are clearly not the thinking type. A 'cure' that is instantaneous has been found for mutants. OK. So those mutants who wanna keep their powers and can live a normal life (see almost all X-Men, lucky ay'?) can, and those whose powers cause deformities or are de-habilitating in some way, can be rid of them. Yay! Right? Oh no, apparently providing people with a choice is the source of eeevil! *insert head smack here*But hey, this is X-Men, so we buy it. OK, so the writers get away with that. Now, they think, how can we best antagonise every X-fan in the world? Let's just kill everyone they care about off in a pointless show of special effects, and make meatballs outta the rest... Except Cyclops, the hell with him. Yes, Cyclops doesn't even get a death scene. No special effects wasted on clearly what must be the writer's most hated character. The use of Cyclops in the three films, the last two specifically, has been to the chagrin of all his fans everywhere. It seems that either James Marsden really upset someone, they plain just hate the Cyclops character, or both. Because pairing him with the unfeeling, emotionless acting zombie that is Famke Jenson was obviously designed as some form of sick torture. Their on screen chemistry throughout has been asinine, Marsden desperately trying to elicit any kind of acting from her. What is supposed to be the most timeless love in the X-Men universe has been degraded and debauched into one man and his zombie, by the writers and the acting decisions made for the Jean Grey character. So much so, no one really cared when she died, heck I was hoping they'd reincarnate her with a different actor.It seems to many of the actors simply wanted out, and as a result the film itself suffers a series of lackluster performances, culminating in what is supposed to be a visual full roast of a finale. But what is in fact, a badly envisaged, poorly written halt, which misuses all the characters and ignores the true potential of the scene.Whilst everyone agrees the effects are spectacular, they also agree that they are also used without forethought. All the characters are a one eighty to their true counterparts in the comics, and the acting is constantly painful. Hugh Jackman is dull (how did Ratner achieve that?) Halle Berry does not have the acting shoulders to bear a leading role (see Catwoman !just an example do NOT see that film!) And the less said about the other performances the better. Except one, Kelsey Grammar. Yes, everyone thinks of him as Frasier, so now think of him as Frasier on steroids. He is the one bright spot in this movie; his portrayal of Beast is down to earth, full of conviction and simply sublime. Even in his fight scenes he is exceptionally believable. He has worked hard on himself and the character and it shows. He has such screen presence you're left wondering why they didn't just ditch everyone else and just let him get on with it.Although it's clear early on the writers missed out on an exceptional partnership, the one scene Wolverine and Cyclops have together is very, very good, and we see some of the skill these two actors truly have. After this scene the dialogue becomes painful and just plain embarrassing. All the scenes between Wolverine and Storm are weak and poorly planned. The zenith of this being Ms. Berrys line:"If you're with us, then be with us." I laughed so hard I got shushed! Did they get Joss Whedon to write that? Is he blaming her delivery again?It seems there were so many personal backhanders, and dodgy agreements for this film to ever be any good. Why else would you remove a respected director and replace him with a joke halfway through? Why would you allow someone a starring role when she clearly hasn't got the skill? Why would you antagonise your main target audience? The list is endless, how the people involved in the production of this movie sleep at night, without the weight of abject failure tearing them apart, is as big a mystery as how this movie ever got made. It is a shame no one will see Kelsey Grammar's performance, because it's overshadowed by the unmitigated crap of the rest of the film.Don't believe me? Read a few of the other comments, just don't give these people anymore money, and don't get me started on the casting for Juggernaut, or the death of Xavier Why would you do either of those? Why would anyone make this movie? Does Fox hate the world this much?
__label__1 Long-time fan of the comics and fan of the first flicks. That being said - this was one of the worst films I have seen in ages. Brett Ratner should be ashamed of himself. It is painfully obvious that Ratner never read X-Men, nor did the screenwriters successfully piece together any sort of cohesion to the story. Such utter disregard for the history and development of so many beloved characters is like a slap in the face to true X-Men fans. With just way too many random story threads running throughout the film, the movie just winds up not knowing which way is up. Razzle Dazzle SFX does not a good film make, and killing off main characters or taking away their powers is a great way to destroy what was a great franchise.HOW TO KILL A FRANCHISE 101Cyclops: Phoenix kills him in the first 15 mins. His death is never seen. He dies like a punk. Totally inappropriate. Anyone who's read a comic would/should know this wouldn't work.Xavier: Phoenix disintegrates him. WTF?Jean: Ends up getting stabbed by Logan at the end (another huge no-no if you've read the comics)Mystique, Magneto, Rogue all lose their powers. Pointless.Not only are there too many story threads, but also too many characters. Angel - who figured prominently in the trailers is in the film for all of 3 minutes, as is Collossus. Shadowcat and Iceman's relationship is twisted since she looks all of 12 years old. And let's not even go there with Rogue whining about not being able to kiss Bobby (hence taking the cure) and Xavier being played as an arrogant SOB. The sole saving grace in the entire film was Iceman vs Pyro. The rest of it was an illogical hash of SFX, written and directed by an uninspired, uneducated (when it comes to X-Men knowledge), and ham-fisted ability. The only way this film could be good is if they had hired a different director, different writers, and added about 30 minutes to the proceedings. The film ends up imploding on itself and in the end making no sense whatsoever. A dismal and disappointing end to a great franchise. A true example of what could have been.
__label__1 There's not really much i want to say here, mainly because i cant be bothered and partly because i might start to get angry.To start of i want to say, Brett Ratner you should be ashamed of yourself. I would also like to add that the actors in this film all did fantastic jobs as they are all very talented but why they didn't run a mile from this i do not no.I spent my (boyfriends) hard earned money on going to see this film and i thought it was going to be amazing because how can you go wrong with X Men when there's so much to work with, the possibilities are endless yet this film managed to destroy my hopes and dreams of finishing up with something spectacular, instead you get a half assed job from someone who seems to no nothing about the X Men.Now i no that changes have to be made to certain things to make it more suitable for the big screen or to tie in with the plot more, but there seems to be no plot or point to this film ***SPOILER WARNING*** First of all as many people have said, since when was juggernaut a mutant? Despite the fact that Xavier and juggernaut are step brothers they don't say a single word to each other or even make eye contact, hmmm, its as if they don't know each other. Juggernaut has always hated and wanted to destroy Xavier, so what happened here. Maybe juggernaut has seen the error of his ways and will be a good bro from know on, but its not very likely.Second of all, you don't kill two of the MOST important characters, along with other extremely important characters losing there powers (though there is something to suggest that "The Cure" doesn't really work). I really am just so angry at this guy.Thirdly, why even bother to put put Jean Grey/Phoenix in this film?? She spent the whole film standing around doing NOTHING. She's supposed to be this all powerful mutant goddess yet doesn't do anything. Why? They could have made this film amazing if they actually did something with Phoenix (and the other piles of characters that made random appearances). Throughout the whole film i kept saying to myself "Phoenix is gonna do something in a second and its gonna be amazing", but sadly that moment never came, not even any flames or the slightest connection with perhaps... a Phoenix, just nothingness, and then to kill her in the end. I'm so confused and slightly distraught.I know i said i would make it short, but I'm just getting a bit carried away, but i'll try and finish up quickly.Fourthly, where was night Crawler? Why was Angel in this film? He was in it for all of two minutes yet in the trailer they make it seem as though he is an important character to this film when in fact he does nothing as well. Why has rouge never been developed in to the awesome character she is? Instead she just whinges a bit more and takes "The Cure" which shouldn't happen. Still no Gambit which was upsetting as he is a favourite of mine, though i already knew about this before i wasted my money.Lastly i want to say that Bryan Singer did a great job with the first two films. Brett Ratner has obviously decided that he wants to be remembered and take credit for the x men films so he destroyed the characters that Bryan Singer had built up and developed so well, and then tried to build other characters up instead, as well as trying to stick as many characters in as possible in 1 hour 40 minutes.Well Brett Ratner, i certainly will remember you, but i can assure you it wont be for bringing what started out so well to a great end.
__label__1 Jean Grey kills Scott? So they are in love, she dies, he is falling to pieces, she comes back to life, they kiss, then she kills him??? Why? Just to get rid of him so she can have Wolverine? I thought she was a medical doctor, so in addition to killing the guy even though she loves him, she goes against all her medical training to kill him. Oh wait did Ratner think he had a Hannibal Lector thing going? Okay so they wanted to get rid of him, but then why does she kill the Professor? She doesn't want him trying to "help" her okay, but why not just turn him into a bloody mess, or knock him against the wall so he winds up in a coma? Instead she turns him into confetti? What the heck was that? Then after the mutants tear up the city, the president just changes his mind and the mutants are okay again? To the point where the guy with wings can just fly around in the park and no one even looks up? Some how I don't think most the presidents we have had would just live and let live. If I was a resident of San Francisco I wouldn't be too happy that the terrorist who tore up the city where allowed to go on their merry way. Was Ratner trying to suggest how Osama Bin Laden should have been dealt with? Just kiss and make up? I don't understand it. I don't understand why people could think this is a good movie.
__label__1 I have to say, when I initially heard that Brett Ratner was directing this movie, I was a little worried, when time passed and I saw the teaser and following trailer, I was very excited, it looked like Ratner was even going to do a better movie than X2, so I went to see it full of expectations.The movie was beyond a complete waste of time, It was the worst movie I saw in 2006 and by far the worst movie since Catwoman was released in 2004, I simply don't know where to start, but i'm gonna list ONLY THE MAJOR flaws of the movie.1 - Ratner put every single mutant he could find, in the movie, probably as a commercial way to appeal to the largest audience possible, that way, not a single character develops and they are certainly not believable, he misused them and reduced them to the power that they are, like they are nothing more than claws, weather-making and a frost machine, they have almost no personality in this movie, mainly because there is way too many mutants and too little time, which makes all of them quite shallow.2 - Brett Ratner, managed to turn Magneto's complex character in a shallow, two-dimensional cheap opportunistic villain, with no agenda except destruction.3 - Halle Berry as Storm is as bad as she was in the two previous movies, her idea of acting is making comical scary faces with some special effects in the background, fortunately for her, the rest of the cast is so misdirected that her bad acting doesn't stand out as much as it did in X-Men 1 and X2.4 - This movie was supposed to be about Jean Grey/Phoenix, for someone who is supposed to be the main character of the movie, she does next to nothing during the entire movie, a kill here, another there, while playing the 'silent 40yo holding a grudge kid' and something predictable happening next, well, there isn't much to tell, because her part is somewhat short, much like Angel who is also reduced to an extra, even tho his name was splashing in the movie's marketing campaign.5 - A great deal of characters, main characters and beloved other mutants of the comics, who are in the movie as 'extras', are killed like trash, without much meaning to it, just so the film can have bigger effect, which never does.6 - Special Effects, that's all the movie really has to show, but other than what I saw in the trailer and got me excited, there isn't much more in the movie, certainly there are a lot of 'bangs and booms', but the usual, cliché unimpressive type.7 - The story, or should I saw lack of it, in this movie was a joke, during the course of the movie, they simply forget about the story, 'what it was decided about the cure', When Magneto makes his move, enough to say that if you take a closer look, the X-Men are not defending innocent civilians or something like that, the X-Men end it up defending the 'Cure' and fighting Magneto's Brotherhood for the sake of fighting, as shallow as that, the only purpose is to make a big bad-ass action-scene, which really doesn't.Those are only the major flaws of the movies, I simply can't list them all, because honestly there isn't enough space here.When i saw this movie, I was in a big theater, and I could tell most people didn't like it, at the end of the session, people couldn't wait to get out of the theater, a couple guys did some short applause, but nobody joined them, I decided to hang out a while and ask what people thought of the movie, most of them thought it was 'very weak', the best reactor I saw, were a few kids that thought it was 'good, okay', the only reason why this movie isn't a flop is because it is been carried by the success of the two previous movies, much like Matrix 3, Matrix: Revolution, because there isn't much of an audience for this movie, the way it ruined all the mutants in the movie and lack of story, it was terrible, neither fans of the comic books or 20+ people seemed to have enjoyed the movie, and there was a fair amount of blood for kids the only ones who seemed to have enjoyed it, I can see that the studio probably had to lobby very hard to be rated PG-13.Overall this was a terrible movie made by a terrible director, the best comparison is to Joel Schummacher's Batman, Brett Ratner definitely killed the X-Men franchise, luckily there are plenty of characters to create 'spin-off' movies, but for them to make another X-Men movie, you'll probably gonna have to wait at least ten years, like Batman.
__label__1 I admit, I'm an x-fan. Despite that, I respected the changes Bryan Singer made in the first 2 films and I thought they were done very well. I loved them. Sadly, the third film let me down in so many ways that after a while, I could only laugh at the absurdity.Everyone else basically named the insane plot twists(not good ones at that)... such as 3 main characters dying(not to mention so... horribly and just retardedly), so I won't go into those. But I agree with the problems everyone else had.what's worse is if you go through the credits, you'll find a "psylocke", "kid omega", "omega red" and other random characters.... who in the film, are nothing like their comic counterparts. It basically looks like the director decided he needed more character names for all of the random mutants he put in the film. For example, Psylocke was reduced to being one of Callisto's lackeys... that can apparently be invincible. Kid Omega was the random porcupine mutant in the movie, in the comics, he's nothing of the sort.I tried to just enjoy this movie as just... a movie. I couldn't even do that.Basically, the only characters they did an okay job with was Wolverine and Beast.Simply put, this was like an experimental alternative universe gone totally wrong.
__label__1 I'll freely admit to being an X-fan. But that doesn't mean that my rantings should be dismissed by those who aren't. Because, really, I'm not upset because of changes to the characters. I'm upset because of terrible writing and horrible directing. The characters were flat and one dimensional, the explanations made little to no sense, and there was not the sense of connection between the movie and the audience that there were with the first two films, partly because of the flatness of the characters and partly because of the shortness of the film.***SPOILER*** Perhaps my biggest beef with this film is the death of two main characters. And not necessarily the deaths, but the way the deaths were handled. The audience is not given time to take in the deaths, nor are they given much reason to mourn those who passed on. One character dies in the first twenty minutes of the film, and does not even deserve a death scene. We are only told that the character dies.BOTTOM LINE. Don't see the film. Don't waste your money.
__label__1 *Spoilers*I loved the first two X-men movies, but this one was just a big pile of crap. This is a perfect example of how Hollywood ruins movies by having a completely retarded plot, bypassing character development, and just aims straight for all of the big special effects.This movie was one constant emotional crybaby movie. * Cyclops is freaking out and is all emotional. * The pheonix.. at times she does nothing but stand there for like 20 minutes, and other times she just flips out for no reason and just starts blowing crap up. She is just one emotional character all around. * Rogue - acts purely on emotion and gets the cure. * Xavier can be summed up by: No I'm NOT trying to control you! You must CONTROL your powers. LET ME HELP YOU. He says this about 15x times over and over. Its like his one liner. * Wolverine was about the only character who at least wasn't controlled purely by emotion. * Storm? I couldn't stand her. After Xavier dies, shes supposed to lead the Xmen - you know be a real leader. Instead shes flipping out, and giving ultimatiums to wolverine. Hmm wow really impressive leadership skills there.The whole "hey we've traveled all the way from the east coast to the west coast with my mutant army, but cant cross a 2-3 mile stretch of ocean and now we are stumped" scene was retarded. They are supposed to be attacking a base to get the kid - that should require surprise. But I know - LETS MOVE THE WHOLE GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE cause that will LOOK COOL and everyone WILL LOVE IT - even though it makes absolutely NO SENSE and was purely an excuse to make some special effects. The marines at the base had like 5 minutes to react, and definitely knew they were coming. Real marines would have been sniping the heck out of them. Then all of the mutants just charge the marines not using any of their powers - yah real bright and realistic. The whole movie was this way. For the most part, no logic to any of their actions. Well i suppose the only logic is - hey what can we do to create more COOL special effects!! Honestly it was terrible. I was so upset after i walked out of the theater. Don't go see this movie.
__label__1 I originally gave this movie a 6. But after thinking about it, and realizing how bad it was, I had to give it a lower score, after all, the only thing that saved this movie was the special effects and action. But in reality, that is not what a movie should be about, especially an X-Men movie.The first 2 movies were filled with substance, great acting, thought provoking material, and overall, a coherent plot. Yes, they were comic movies, but X-Men has always been more then just entertainment.This is where the movie failed to grasp the concept that made the first 2 movies great. In an attempt to make a "great" concluding trilogy, the director and writers decided to kill off as many characters as possible, believing that by doing so will add depth and emotion. The problem is that little time is given to make the audience actually care about the characters. Even a funeral scene for one of the characters becomes cheezy and horribly acted.In addition to killing off many characters, a decision was made to introduce as many characters from the source material as possible in order to "please" fans. It ends up coming off more like Mortal Kombat: Annihilation or Batman and Robin, because no time was given to properly introduce the characters.Also, it seems like the writers weren't sure what movie they were making by having many characters act as if they were someone else. For example, a character who was compassionate and caring in the first 2 movies becomes rude and inconsiderate in the third.In the end, the movie was entertainment. If the first 2 movies were nothing more then that, then this movie would have fit in nicely, but sadly, due to an obvious rushed schedule, and bad storytelling, what could have been a great concluding movie to an incredible trilogy ends up being a brainless action movie.
__label__1 This was by far the worst movie all summer. It is proof that a trailer can make a movie better then it really is. I thought for sure you could not ruin the X-Men franchise, but leave it to Brett Raitner to do it! I was willing to give this guy a chance after I saw the trailer, but it was a big disappointment. All I can say is wait for Superman since the guy who did it right (Brian Singer) is doing it. The thing that gets me the most is why do people in Hollywood feel they need to screw with story lines of comics? They are popular for a reason! Bryan Singer and Sam Rami knew that and that's why their movies are successful, because they know if its not broke don't fix it. I don't mind little plot changes like spider-man's web shooters or some tweaks to the origins of the X-Men if it serves the purpose of the overall story. But X-Men 3 did not do that. Instead it looks as if Raitner wanted his own stable of X-Men and killed off all the ones Singer established in the first two movies. The plot was very weak and the characters were all watered down. Wolverine looked like a bitch. Magneto came off as moron. Rouge, well, was she even in the movie? Cyclops went out like a chump! And how are you going to kill off Professor X? So if you're a fan of the comic save your money and if you were unfortunate enough to see it, do what I did, pretend it never existed. It worked for Superman 3 and 4.
__label__1 Most people before me have said this already. This movie stinks. When I heard that Michael Bay was at the helm of the first Transformers movie, I was very worried but then by some fluke of nature he actually managed to pull off a watchable movie, perhaps because he was kept on a tight leash by the studio.This debacle of a sequel is another story. Bay must have been given full power over this one due to the success of the first. Big mistake. This guy can’t make a decent, realistic and entertaining movie. He makes action/soft porn trash. A good script, story or dialog are just inconvenient afterthoughts for him and it shows. He probably thinks he can distract the audience away from these gaping holes by adding a lot of nonsensical action and unfunny humour.Sorry Mr. Bay you can’t fool people all the time and the people who grew up with the transformers are absolutely hating this movie. I heard that you didn’t want to make the first movie because you didn’t even like the transformers but you became very keen for the sequel after the first movie made so much money for you. Here’s a tip: lay off the third and let a real director and a real team make that one for us because you have just totally trampled on the transformers legacy.
__label__1 No more Michael Bay, no more Shia Labeouef, maybe no more Megan Fox. When you attach your name to a project like this, hopefully fans will not give future projects done by these people record breaking box office feats. I'm embarrassed that I supported the cause.One of the poorest acting, directional, and written efforts I have seen in a long time in modern cinema. The scoop: This movie is good for a couple of scenes where the audience might be like 'cool!' due to CGI effects. There is a couple of cheap laughs from some other scenes. If that entertains you, great, there are lots of action movies out there for you. However, if you're reading a review on IMDb, you've likely separated well done movies from poorly done movies, and at least seen a couple in the top 250. To the reader, don't see this.I left the movies mad. I wonder what other directors think when they see a screening of this film. The story is near non-existent, there are so many plot holes, or unexplained courses of action this movie takes... it really is unbelievable that the script was given an okay by any film studio. Here's the thing : the target audience is obviously young kids or early teens. I think back to when I was 11 or 12 and I saw Men in Black in the theatres. I was entertained then, it's at least plausible that 12 year olds could be somewhat entertained by this now. However, I am still entertained by 'younger'generation stuff like spongebob, south park, and even beast wars. This didn't do it for me at all. Similarly to how family guy uses the strategy 'hey people love our interchangeable jokes in early episodes, let's overload our new episodes with the same jokes'.... Michael Bay employs 'hey people love the cgi and megan fox in the first one... let's overload the film with sex overtones, explosions, and fight scenes'... and then at the last minute tried to fit a story around it.This is the kind of film that makes a person angry that they aren't in Hollywood directing films, because most could do better than this.
__label__1 I've created an IMDb account only for this movie, to let people know how terrible it was...I'm not really a big fan of robot/sci-fi movies, but my boyfriend made me go as I had made him watch the last Ben Affleck :) Anyways, even tho I'm not a fan, I thought it'd be a bit like Iron Man, which I liked a lot. When I saw Spielberg was involved in it, I was relieved and thought it was going to be good. Hell was I wrong... even my boyfriend (who's a programmer, understand: robot/high-tech fan) hated the movie. As everyone said: no plot, just a lot of bangs and booms and boobs. It is true that technically-speaking, the special effects are impressive. But it's not the 1st time we see big robots and explosions. Besides this good point, the rest of the movie is kinda sad. It's like they made a salad: hot chick? check. robots? check. fire and explosions? check. US saving the world? check. lame-ass jokes? check. stereotypes? check. They gathered all ingredients they could think about and just mixed them up together.Something else: I'm French, and the french clichés in American movies are getting really annoying. No we don't eat snails (unless you go in an extremely expensive, high-class, very traditional restaurant and specially order snails because you're a tourist) and we (at least my generation) don't know who the mime Marceau is. Also they should get their maps straight cos the Eiffel Tower is not where it was seen in the movie... But I'm getting carried away, that's a detail.Actors: bad, bad, more bad. I mean, I'm sure I could do a better job and wouldn't cost as much. However, I must say Bravo Megan Fox for keeping your jeans white after running around in the desert and I want the same lip gloss she has! :P Seriously, how hard is it to keep things a tiny bit more realistic? Stop making us girls feel awful about ourselves! It'd be OK if Sam Witwick was hot too. But nooooo, we have a nerd instead of eye-candy. Not fair. Actually there was Josh Duhamel but he's not the hero so it doesn't count :)Robots: hard to tell which are which. sound of clinging metal was annoying in the end (but didn't prevent me from drifting off during the last fight...). nothing to say really. It's all seen before, nothing new, nothing exciting.Plot: well... I'm gonna guess it was all written in one night, 1 month before releasing the movie maybe? proof is: they mention Obama and the swine flu. There's nothing original/exciting in the plot, you can easily anticipate on everything, it's just very boring.To sum up: it's "Cinema week" in France right now, and all movies are only 3euros (4$). I'm glad for that as I consider 3euros is still too expensive for that pile of s***. it's OK if you're only interested in the special effects (again, they're good, but nothing new there). Otherwise, don't bother. There's loads of good movies.
__label__1 Well, I enjoyed it as it happened, but after some reflection...I've come to the understanding that this film is very, VERY messy.A lot of people defending this film are saying the action scenes are spectacular. Sure, they're spectacular...if you like trying to figure out just who's who and what's going on. Most of the time the characters are so obscured by objects/smoke that you can't see the "action" that everyone's raving about. When they're not behind something, the camera's changing every five seconds that you can't focus on the mess before you. The only cool part about these action scenes is the intense way some of the Transformers are disfigured.The over-all plot, story, and script of this thing comes together in the most ugly way possible. Most people are complaining about it being too all over the place, or that there wasn't one at all. Unfortuneatly, it's hard not to agree on both fronts. There was no flow, no suspense, no build up, no up, no down, just one flat line of point a to point b to point c. The intense battles would have been made more intense had they been preceded by some sort of build up, but they just kind of...happened. The plot in and of itself has the makings of something epic. MULTI-FILM EPIC. The script used to flesh out this story was mediocre AT BEST. It could have been so much more than what it was, it could have spaced apart plot points by delving into the characters (specifically: the transformers). Instead, the film was littered with unnecessary, and often crude jokes.Heck, this overly cartoony humor was barely present in the first film. Now it's been ramped up to over 9000, and it severely offsets any emotional impact the film might have had. Most of it would have been better suited to something like Aqua Teen Hunger Force, at least there crude humor comes off clever. It's really sad we had to put up with all of that instead of enjoying some actual quality time with our favorite machines.And, speaking of which, the lack of Transformer character development presents itself yet again. You would think after fans complained about the infrequent amount of Transformer screen time in the first, then things would have been different now. Nope. We still don't know what they're thinking, who they are as living beings, or really anything about them except that they shoot at the opposing force. And why would they just sit around in car mode when they were hidden? They came from a planet where they walked around freely, one would think they'd enjoy being able to just be themselves.The annoying liberties that were taken here in the name of artistic licensing are nauseating. I understand this is an "adaptation" and that things aren't going to be 100% to the source material. However, completely rewriting a character's personality is like killing off a loved one and replacing them with someone completely different. They also went waaaay to far with appearance, as well. Being a fan of a character from the series isn't' going to matter much here because there's a good chance they've been overhauled beyond recognition. Heck, the only one that barely made the transition from cartoon/comic to this blight of a film is Optimus Prime. No one else even remotely resembles their previous incarnations. From personality to appearance, this piece of work tramples all of the work of those before it...AND the fans they had sought to please.The film's treatment of characters like Sky/Jetfire is utterly appalling. It's proof that the people involved in this film don't actually give a crap about the characters in their movie. Then again, the lack of character development makes that just as obvious.The character design here is also noticeably different from the previous film. In the last film, all of the machines were quite bulky, a little more humanoid. The new ones here all seemed to be cartoony or very streamlined. The mini transformers all seemed to sport bug eyes, where as the ones last time around did not. Why would this new batch, decepticon and autobot alike, differ so much from the others? It's not like they were all brand new, they'd been around as long as the others. I dunno, different art direction from film to film grates on my nerves, especially when it comes to character design.And, for the love of sanity, WHY can't they treat women like people? If I wanted to gawk at girls who were just there because they're pretty I would look up questionable material online. I honestly feel sorry for her and any other actress who doesn't actually get a chance to show off any acting talent they might have. I don't have a problem with them showing a girl as being pretty in the film...but if that's all they concentrate on then they can just get right the heck out.The rest of the talent on hand might as well have been treated the same way. No one was really given an opportunity to actually do much acting, it was all jokes and running.The movie's fun, but if you have a brain you'd better shut it off or your going to find yourself wanting to bring some pain to the creators of this drivel. And for the love of pete, just because it's an "action" film doesn't mean the film can't have substance. It's possible to have a load of brain-flexing story AND explosions.
__label__1 Ahhh where to start. I usually don't write reviews. But yesterday's disappointment in watching this had to be expressed either through punching an anvil, or writing this review. But i need my hands this week so I'm going to write a review.I am a fan of transformers, i loved the cartoon series and the first and second blockbuster hit. I saw quite a substantial amount of plot holes in the third installation and I knew it was going to go downhill from there. I had hopes that the age of extinction would clear some of the plot holes i saw from the dark of the moon, and after seeing the movie trailers I became somewhat excited and felt all warm inside.I brought my two boys with me, bought some overpriced pop-corns and sugar drinks to stimulate my mind so that my brain could focus and absorb the new concept of the story, hoping to satisfy my hunger for unanswered questions that left my joy decimated at the last series.I like Walhberg during action scenes, but not when he starts making lame dialogues. And those lame dialogues deviate from being a bit funny, to just stab me in my thighs, depending on who wrote the script. Lame dialogues pervaded the whole friggen movie! There are countless, pointless, perpetually boring ass things that prevented the story, or just the movie as a whole from being appreciated. The characters were annoying, namely Lucas, Tessa and that friggen Shane who is nothing but a disrespectful little sh*t to Walhberg and exhibited this attitude throughout until third quarter of the movie. I'm a dad alright, and I just wanted to punch him the f**k out! And Walhberg should've done the same, what the hell? Few good actors, but the characters were weak. Every time i thought that the movie was trying to make people laugh, I look around the entire cinema and see people staring at the screen, not laughing. I look at my boys and they're not laughing, and they're the type that laugh at anything that moves. I'm not laughing because my mind is struggling trying to keep that hope alive while at the same time enduring the thought of another ominous outcome, "when is this going to end?", "stop doing stupid things", "stop trying to make me laugh", "just stop talking", "OMG what am I doing here?"I finish the giant popcorn and my big tub of sugar drink after an hour. I thought that if i just go out for a smoke, maybe i'll be able to appreciate the rest of the movie because my mind will be refreshed. I'll take my time, maybe say hi to that nice ticket collector and make small talk. That's 10 minutes to recuperate. It couldn't be that bad.I get back to my seat. Nothing changes... Every new main event that was introduced in the movie was not properly explained in the end. In other words, it just came out of nowhere and went nowhere. This just piled up leaving me with more and more questions. It seems as if plots were inserted in holes and the viewer was left to create his own resolution of it. The story is incongruently incoherent. Why after all this time, can't Bumblebee talk? With all the autonomous robotic, high alien-technologically advanced race systems that are available that they can't rectify his voice box?? I wanted to see more of the dinobots. And why were they in the... never mind, no spoilers.Yes most of the action scenes were great, but come on, don't make it lame by adding something that doesn't belong there, like another horrific comment, phrase or something that isn't funny. It destroys the entertainment. In fact, just don't even talk during the action scenes please!Graphics are awesome. That's the only thing I appreciate. So unfortunately i left disappointed once again. More than disappointed, irritated and frustrated. I asked my boys what they thought, they said "ummm... awesome?" as if that definition has lost it's meaning and they weren't entirely sure how to make me feel better. I wanted to research on the writers and directors who created this movie to try and figure out how they defiled a great science fiction theme, but I couldn't give a cross-bun anymore. I'll let it roll this time. I feeling a bit better now.In the end i figure this movie suits those who don't care too much about story lines and great characters and dialogues. Mainly those who like to see giant robots fight. but the movie is rated for matured audiences and robot fights only took place during half the movie. So then I question what are the creators of this film trying to achieve? Use the name for profit and create something primarily for entertainment purposes. But today's audience are rational thinkers who want more than just action scenes and loud explosions. So...
__label__1 First off I am a fan of the previous movies. they were not masterpieces of story telling or acting but at least they were entertaining and somewhat funny. Secondly this is one very very boring movie. there is no plot to speak off, no characters to get any attachment to, no sense of a story what so ever. the only thing that is there is Michael Bays trademark explosions. 150 minutes of them... You could take away every human in the movie and still have the same result. You could take away 100 of the 166 minutes and still have the same result. The fights are a constant mess where you cant really root for someone cause you cant really understand who is doing what. All in all I spent more than half the movie trying to understand where it was going and praying for it to end.
__label__1 Don't watch it. Extremely long, extremely boring. How many more parts are they gonna make? The story is very confusing and not well thought-through. Everything has already been chewed over and over and they keep squeezing the last bit out of the transformer-idea. The actors apparently didn't like it either because even my little sister could have done a better job. Especially the voice acting for the transformers is very weak and one just feels stupid listening to their voices. I had enough of this movie after a little more than 1 hour. That's more than 1 and 1/2 hours left which I still watched, thinking maybe something would still happen. Guess what? It didn't. Long story short, this movie is really, really bad.
__label__1 I seldomly write reviews, but sometimes (every 4 or 5 years or so) I just have to warn people before spending hard earned money on something so incredibly awful as this film. I see most films at home but I saw this one in the theatre with my stepson who really wanted to see this. For me it ended up even way below my expectations, which were already very low. Note: I really liked the first one. I don't dislike Bay (even liked Pearl Harbor and Armageddon and Bad Boys II), but this is just simply not very good. It's plain awful actually. Even my 11 yr old stepson thought it was boring.... need I say more...? It doesn't go anywhere, you don't care at all what happens to the characters, human or alien and there is literally never any sense of urgency or peril for anyone involved. Please let another director have a shot at this franchise and let Bay direct another The Rock. And why Spielberg is executive-producing this turd of a movie is beyond me. Waste of time for everyone involved, only good thing is it's making a ton of money for Paramount. Lets just hope they invest in something with more substance.
__label__1 Like many I grew up with the Transformers, actually during the 1st generation of the show in the United States, vs. a more recent iteration. Thus the Transformers, their universe and their mythology is near and deer to me. Age of extinction starts out on an incredible high note, and completely falls apart during a movie that could have stopped more then an hour short of the 2 hour and 45 minute run time. The opening shots bring into perspective the creators of the Transformers coming to earth thousands of years in the past. They do a great job teasing the creators as you see a semi-mechanical but mainly organic hand controlling the joystick on an aircraft. Below thousands of dinosaurs are massacred, leading to what I thought would be a set up for the Dinobots, however no connection is ever made to the Dinobots. From there we start out with the typical Michael Bay entrance to a Transformers movie, some young girl wearing little clothing (presumably someone he is trying to date, ala Megan Fox and a Victoria's Secret Model) is shown on the screen, and then the explosions and bad dialogue start as well. I'm not going to drone on about a movie that really doesn't deserve to be reviewed, however I'll sum up a few other points of this extremely long winded flick. The movie takes a stab at introducing Galvatron and the Dinobots, and does so poorly in both cases. Leading to the question, what can Michael Bay actually do with great mythology and lineage in a franchise like this, with the answer being apparently nothing. There is no drama added to the 5 minutes of Dinobots that we see, with no connection to any consequence or back story that would lead to the belief that these monsters are going to save the day for the Autobots. Some of the human acting was actually quite good, however since there was no real plot line to follow it falls short as there is no consistency in creating a cohesive story line. That is truly at the core of why this movie is just awful in so many ways. Couple that with poor editing (Actors and robots talking but no audio at two-three points in the movie, i.e. bush league production), poor use of some of the greatest characters in the mythology of the Transformers, and all the other idiosyncrasies that have come to be synonymous with all things Michael Bay and you truly have a turd sandwich.For these reasons and many others I give it a 1 out of 10 and plead with Paramount to please let someone else pick up the Directors chair for installments 5 and 6!
__label__1 If you seen any of the other 3 movies you seen this one.On the other hand there is so many product placements in this movies It does it make worse. There is even a two minute long light beer ad in the middle of the movie. Of course 5 minutes later they're smashing into a Victoria secret truck. Then they are drinking some Asian brand milk. Before this there are half dozen car model ads. There are product banners on all the buildings. They Drink brand soda with crazy long camera holds. There is a product placement every 5 minutes and this is no joke.Its also really weird how they say the girl is 17 years old over and over. Then they have a "thing" about how its legal...I see no point in this at all.I would skip this movie. I don't plan on ever seeing another one.
__label__1 After Bay made his poisonous 'Arthouse' movie, he comes back with all guns blazing with this, the fourth in possibly the worst franchise of all time.All Transformers are now classed as a threat, so Frasier is leading a literal headhunt for the remaining robots,mot clear the world of aliens and to put more human in humanity.But he has an ulterior motive of course. Stanley Tucci wants the Transformers metal, so he can introduce a new product called, wait for it, Transformium, to build his own army of robots to bring world peace.But silly old Marky Mark has decided to work with Bay again, and inadvertently buys Optimus Prime off some bloke for 150 dollars.And there's two and a half hours of this......As expected, I hated this film, I wasn't looking forward to it, but I give any film a chance. I like the majority of the directors work. I think The Island is a hoot, and The Rock is still one of the best action movies of the last twenty years, but since the first Transformers, I feel like he couldn't give a damn about the audience, as he knows that they will pay to see this anyway.Heaven knows why the film is as long as it is, its a film about robots fighting other robots, and at 160 plus minutes, I really think he's bitten off far more than he can chew. The film is written horribly, the script is laughably horrid, and the film wreaks of stereotypes, racial ignorance and is awfully sexist toward females.The action scenes are all confusing, and again, for the fourth time in a row, you cannot make out who is fighting who, and it's just more of that at the end.I was so close to walking out around the ninety minute mark, and although lots will say, 'well what did you expect?' Or 'leave your brain at the door', well allow me to retort, I expect to be entertained when watching a movie, not offended, and as for the leave your brain.... Statement, that's just for people who are in denial at just how bad the film actually is.But to console my self, after the film, I had a Bud Light, bought some Beats Speakers, Gucci Sunglasses, my girlfriend some Victorias Secret underwear, and my daughter a My Little Pony.......I can't for the life of me understand why, probably some subliminal advertising I saw somewhere.The cinematic equivalent of a portaloo, and the biggest mistake I've ever made going to the cinema.
__label__1 I've been a fan of Transformers since 1984 (I was 7) but damn it Michael Bay, you and your writers put the worst POS movie out there possible. I thought Transformers: Rise Of The Fallen was horrible (#'s 1 & 3 I enjoyed), but this Transformers made that one look like an Academy award winner. This film was so bad I thought about walking out a few times. Mark Wahlberg was so damn horrible in this film (sad because I like a lot of his others) as well as Nicola Peltz and Jack Reynor that I actually was praying that Shia Labeouf (who I couldn't stand and thought Walberg would work out much better) would jump out at some point screaming, "OOOPPPTTTIIIMMMUUUSSS!!! Kill all the other human actors who suck except Kelsey Grammar!" just to save this film. I went to this to see the Dinobots and they ended up being basically background extras in a super cheesy, explosive, mess. There was so much you could have easily rewritten that would have totally changed the way this film turned out. My fiancé', who knows nothing about any past Transformer genres or who the characters are except Optimus, Megatron & Bumblebee and who enjoyed the first 3 films thought this film was horrible! Never thought I'd say it, but please don't make TF5 and when you said you were never going to make another after the third one you should have taken your own advice. The title "extinction" fit this film well.
__label__1 If it were possible to give a movie a negative score it would most certainly be this awful piece of Hollywood CGI garbage. I am not one to hate a movie solely on the fact that there is a lot of CGI used. I think it is a great way to help TELL the story and use it as a tool to help move the plot along. But when a movie is entirely based off of CGI special effects action scenes it takes away from the plot itself. In this movie the plot is VERY straightforward, one doesn't have to try and connect the pieces or think too hard on what is going on. If I remember correctly there is a fight scene about every 15-20 minutes all throughout this 3 hour hell ride. By the time the end fight scene rolls around you will be begging for it to be over and quickly.I just don't understand what happened to Michael Bay. He had a few movies that I would consider good, even some that had a solid plot. Special effects always seems to be his Achilles heel but movies such as "The Rock", "Armageddon", and "The Island" all had semi-decent story lines. If you have seen any of his other movies you also know that product placement is something that he always does in his films. You will see advertisements for "Bud Light", "Victoria Secret", "Chevrolet", along with many others. Just another way he has sold his soul to squeeze as much money as he can out of society.Rant over now let us get down to business....Mark Wahlberg, how are you still getting acting jobs? Is it just me or does this guy play the same roll in almost every movie he does. The overly cocky, smart-ass, bad-ass guy who is not to be messed with. He had two terrific performances in "the fighter" and "the departed" and instead of building off of those two performances to establish himself as a very solid actor he sells out to take cheesy, awful movies. Deep down I don't think he is the best of actors to begin with so maybe this is the best we will see from him from this point on. In this movie expect the exact same character he has been playing only this time he is the father of the "hot" girl in the movie. Played by Nicola Peltz who did a so-so job throughout the movie. She had some scenes where she wasn't a complete bore to watch. That was my biggest problem with this movie is that there was just nothing to latch onto. You couldn't sink yourself into the story or into the characters without there being a bomb or other type of explosion going on somewhere. Jack Reynor who played Peltz's boyfriend actually did a good job as part time comic relief part time hero. Hopefully he won't sell out to the teen girl movies I'm sure he's been getting offers to play. Obviously both Reynor and Peltz are attractive individuals, I only hope that their success in future movies is more than skin deep. Kelsey Grammar, Stanley Tucci, and Titus Welliver all give solid performances, or I guess I should say as solid as you will expect out of this movie.So with this sub-par cast, horrible storyline, and CGI special effects action scenes please see this movie with LOW expectations. The plot itself doesn't make any sense. There are so many parts in this movie where I was thinking to myself, "how did he know to do that?", "how did he even get his cell phone number?", "how did they survive that?". My biggest complaint was how Optimus Prime was supposed to be "fixed" by Wahlberg because he couldn't function without proper assistance. And then 10 minutes later he fixes himself and turns himself into a "cool" semi-truck. There are just so many moments where the story turns on itself because of garbage screen writing. The horrible part was there is no explanation to the questions I had because there is no way to explain it during the movie. Bay just doesn't care anymore because he knows we will continuously pay to see such horrid garbage. IF you see this movie and I hope you don't, please pay attention because I promise you will be asking the same questions I did. If any of this movie is appealing to you and you find it in anyway "amazing" do yourself a favor and stop watching movies. This next line is the only real spoiler of this review.... I will bet anyone a million dollars that you can guess how this movie ends!! Yes that's right, Optimus Prime pulls out his giant sword and cuts the evil decepticon robot in half. Exactly like the other three movies. I implore you, please do not waste your money or time seeing this movie in theaters. Wait for it to come out on Netflix, do not give Bay or Hollywood anymore money. We need to wake up as moviegoers.... when will enough be enough. We are smarter and better than this America. The only reason I went to see this movie is because my ticket was paid for me by a friend, I would not spend one cent on another Bay film. Please heed my warning..... stay away from this film at all costs!
__label__1 An old truck was found by the hero. Shortly after that, shaking cameras, flashing lights, and fast moving shiny things attempted to induce seizures in the audience for about 2 hours. When I came too, I remembered there was this large robot with a glowing blade riding on the back of an even larger robot dinosaur recently put threw a temporary jaw-ectomy. The human hero nodded his head as he observed this from a distance as if to say, "This makes perfect sense to me." The human hero then picked up his very tiny gun , and shot parts of bad guys like they were made of graham crackers. I can only imagine he must of been using special ammunition, perhaps hollow points filled with good intentions. Then the hero robot left. The End. ( I don't think you will like this movie very much.)
__label__1 I got to watch this movie for free and let me just say that it is bad... So bad that I actually feel ripped off despite getting the rental for free.The 1st indication that we were going down the wrong path was the short jean girl who is the "responsible one" of the family. Then we have prototypical retarded inventor... yes the guy who is super smart is also the dumbest guy in the movie because, you know, as intelligence goes up you actually become stupider.Those two horrible character were just the opening volley to the rest of this travesty, that they to pass off as entertainment. We have government agents that are even dumber than those in real life as well as transformers with horrible lines and attempts at comedy that just made me cringe in embarrassment. I don't usually ascribe to hate mongering of directors or writers but I think that this was the death knell to Michael Bay's career. He was never great, but he is just getting worse over time. Skip this movie. I enjoyed an Adam Sandler chick flicks more than I enjoyed this and after this retarded movie, I probably owe the wife a dozen more chick flicks...
__label__1 This movie has to be the last nail in the coffin for Micheal Bay's Transformers franchise , the over use of lens flare is super annoying in 3d and gets old very fast , the random explosions that go off time and time again get old very fast , the use of particle effects is very cool in this movie and certain points it works very well but ... there is times in the movie where the particles kinda take over the screen and just distract you from the movie.The amount of random chase scenes is insane and in my opinion their not done well at all , the tracking on them is done so bad that you get the feeling that the characters can teleport from one place to another.Im not one to right reviews to movies but in the case the movie made me so angry I had to .
__label__1 How come Michael Bay has made this movie? And how come anyone expect to viewers watch such a awful movie!! The rating of the movie may please be changed to "strictly for infants" instead of "PG-13".No story, no thrill!Its just 2&1/2 hours of time waste.Why the Megatron (regenerated) robots where transforming to car and trucks? They could have been a helicopter or a supersonic jet! They are build to take any shape they want! Thus could have saved some time of the viewer. Looks like Hollywood directors have started to follow a few Bollywood directors! To extend the movie they can go up to any extent.And how transformers managed to destroy if the Megarton with superior technology are designed to destroy the transformers!! I've never seen such a waste movie ever!
__label__1 Once again, Hollywood has come out with another horrific "addition" to the canon of classic children's stories. This awful prequel should be seen as another blemishment in Sam Raimi's career as a director. Once again, he's splattered cheesy special effects all over the screen in an attempt to impress the audience, but skips out on any type of depth of meaning. He still hasn't figured out that the magic of the movies comes out through the audience becoming engaged with the characters and the storyline, not by being overwhelmed by an over-expansive computer-generated world that looks like its made of plastic. James Franco and Mila Kunis should also be embarrassed by their utter lack of acting in this film. A half-hour into this tragedy and I was ready to leave the theatre. All the characters in the film seem like they're speaking their lines into the camera, probably a result of the fact that everything in the film looks like it was put into the film in post-production. I couldn't help but find it ironic that the screenwriters of Oz have the Kansas magician be tempted by the gold-filled riches of the Emerald City, but find the strength to resist. After viewing the film, all one can think of is how much Roth and Raimi sold out the magical, fantastical world of Oz for the evil riches that came with suckering the poor fans of the imagination of Baum with this over-bloated, horribly-written, poorly acted travesty of a film. They are the ultimate Kansas hucksters. Perhaps they need to look for a little more "goodness" and a little less "greatness."
__label__1 Oof, should never have seen this film. It was slow, boring and with literally no stand out moments at all. James Franco was cr*p, and totally unlikeable. Mila Kunis gave an odd, over the top performance. Ha, which leads me on to another thing.. She was literally over the top of all her tops in the movie.. 3 female characters all wore cleavage revealing corsets, and fawn all over male character. They're supposed to be witches ffs, and *spoiler* even when Mila Kunis turns into the wicked witch she rips her top off (for no apparent reason), turns green and warty, but still has a low cut cleavage revealing corset dress going on. Eh? When I was a kid witches were wicked, a bit scary, and probably covered in warts but not really sexy.. Does everything female have to be sexy? No need. It shows how bad the film was that that is pretty much all I can remember about it though.....
__label__1 The Amazing Spider-Man 2 has technical merits. However, these merits are impossible to enjoy in a film drowned from beginning to end in the sickening narcissism of both its purported hero and supposedly tragic villains.I give you The Amazing Spider-Man: a hero with no principles and no goals. He sometimes cares about a girl and sometimes wants to know what happened to his parents, but day-to-day he really only cares about doing what he wants to do--which happens to be helping people, it seems, because it gives them "hope." And what luck! He gives them this just by being himself. Not by being a better person. Not by sacrificing anything else in his life for the greater good. Just by being strong and smart and doing exactly what he feels like doing because that's how he feels. And look: by being himself, other people want to be like him. What a wonderful message for a self-obsessed age. And watching the box office dollars roll in, it would seem that this is just what everyone wants to hear.Ah, but lovable doe-eyed Petey gives up Gwen for the greater good, right? No he doesn't. He gives her up because he can't face the guilt of having contributed to her father's death--his guilt, and his unquestioned inability to give up being a famous public figure, lead to his need to break up (And his principled stand on this issue is so strong that he will renege on it whenever he feels randy). We never see Peter torn between helping people and helping himself. We see him torn between two paths to self-gratification: the adulation of public heroism (and public vilification, which is a kind of adulation) and the love of a single woman. What about Aunt May? No, not her--she's just in the way of Spidey laundry.This is the major problem with the reboot: The overshadowing death isn't Uncle Ben's. It's Captain Stacy's. And Captain Stacy didn't die because Peter was self-absorbed. Captain Stacy died because Peter existed. So the standard for Peter being a good person or bad person has nothing to do with his character--it has only to do with his presence. During an over-the-top car chase in the first act, rather than stop a massive truck from smashing through a set of cars (which Sam Raimi has shown us he could have done, assuming equivalence between a truck and a train), Spidey ducks out of the way only to come back after the carnage. This is a hero who says, "I'm here for you--until it's inconvenient for me, then you're on your own."The long and short of it is that this Spider-Man is in no way heroic. Superheroes are heroic because, while they could decide that they are unconcerned with our struggles, they still feel a moral obligation to help the average Joe. This Spider-Man seems to feel obliged to help only because, as someone superior to everyone else, the world's problems must naturally fall on his shoulders. Not because someone died due to his inaction--because he's exceptional. And helping inferior people is what exceptional people do. Sometimes. When they're not busy dealing with exceptional-person stuff. Like obsessing about parents who unjustly abandoned them while feeling no responsibility whatsoever for the uncle they themselves abandoned.Add to this a pair of villains who go from being apparently well-meaning if somewhat imbalanced individuals to homicidal maniacs due to a single rejection episode, and you have a two-hour cesspool of poorly justified destructive self-obsession. Electro could have been a tragic Frankenstein villain. Instead, because a group of random people roots for Spider-Man over him in his first public appearance, he decides everyone should die. Yup--that's his motivation. You don't love me because I'm me? Well, I'll kill you all. Thank you, Columbine.Harry's the same. After a five-minute meeting in which Spider-Man refuses give him his blood--which he truly believes, based on a single night's research on a single computer file, is the only thing that can save him from a horrible death that won't happen for another 40 years--Harry decides that Spider-Man needs to die right now. And everyone who dies in the process of saving his own old-age skin is perfectly okay. This despite Harry having been Peter's best friend only 48 hours before--though not because they have a long history together, but because they talked for a few hours and remembered how they were friends eight years ago. And it's not like either of them developed any other close relationships over their entire time in high school and college. (Let that be the only mention I will make of this film's preposterous set of causes and effects--and its Attack-of-the-Clones-inspired need to intellectually dictate emotional importance rather than meaningfully display it.)The original Spider-Man had a single moment of narcissism. Count 'em: one. Only once did Peter Parker step up for glory, himself, and his own objectives, and he immediately paid for it with the death of one of the only three people he loved. This new Peter Parker steps up for himself every day as a part of his playground vision of a hero, and not a single screenwriter or billion-dollar audience member seems to care. This Spider-Man says the world should glorify you for being you, and if that doesn't happen, it's the world that needs to change, not you. And that is what truly terrifies me.
__label__1 Tron Legacy is so bad, that if I had been in Jonestown and they were showing this film, I would have drunk the Kool-aid half way through the film to end my life.The lines are so bad, the acting is borrowed from every blockbuster that was a success before this film (think Star Wars, Raiders, Attack of The Clones..etc.) the idea is, if they show you familiar themes with familiar frames and a music score that is supposed to be avant-garde but comes up sounding borrowed and repetitive. The Film wants to be Batman, and a video game at the same time, and it never makes sense. For a film that's about computers, the computers seem awfully stupid and the Users even more idiotic...Save your money and see Yogi Bear at least that movie has no pretense.
__label__1 In the 28 years since the original Tron movie, there have been, oh, a few innovations in the world of computers, networks, electronics, and communications. But somehow, the makers of this sequel seem to have missed inventions such as "The World Wide Web". They passed on a tremendous opportunity to make "Tron Legacy" as innovative and powerful as the original. Instead, they've merely sullied our memories by reducing what was a tremendous and ominous world into the digital equivalent of Smalltown, USA.In 1982, few people had computers, far fewer had even heard of computer networks, and hardly anyone outside the military had heard of "the internet." The creators of the original movie crafted an entire alternate plane of existence, accessible only to computer programmers, in a time when the words "virtual" and "reality" both still meant "true." Their inspired fantasy gave audiences an entirely new perspective on the nascent digital age. The original's bold, limitless universe, is limited in the sequel to "The Grid", a small city from which good guys escape from effortlessly, and from which bad guys seem to have no trouble leaving, though you're given the impression it never occurred to them to look beyond the borders of their extremely small town before. And the entire world is wholly disconnected from any computer system used by anyone on Earth. The only link to reality is the exact same machine hidden in a forgotten room. It's as if the film-makers hoped we'd forget that now, 30 years later, almost EVERYONE is on a computer network in one way or another. The original Tron also created real tension by crafting a plot where what happened inside the system mattered. Even before the original Jeff Bridges character was sucked into the digital netherworld, the audience had a palpable sense of the impending doom to all humanity posed by the growing strength of the computer network. In this sequel, the "real-world" angle is a lame-duck corporation's unapologetically pathetic efforts at keeping market share. Even that side story introduced in the beginning, isn't given any relevance to anything that happens in the rest of the movie. The larger threat of a digital character emerging from "The Grid" into the real world is repeated throughout the film, but never in a credible way. Why should we be scared about him getting out? What would he do here? How would a computer program have any power outside a computer system?There were endless ways the filmmakers could have used today's globally integrated technologies and on-line mania to make Tron Legacy as relevant as the original. The bad guys could have tried to empower Wii systems to control people instead of the other way around, or to animate an army of Second Life avatars, or to rewrite all of Wikipedia to brainwash every student in America, or to take control of every electronic device on Earth (think Y2K).Tron Legacy has dazzling visual graphics, but it falls into that disappointing category of films that match astronomically high priced production values with cut-rate B-movie plots, acting, and character development. Saddest of all is that no one bothered to spend a dime of those hundreds of millions of dollars to follow the true legacy of Tron: to inspire us with the possibilities of where the next digital universe might take us.
__label__1 In a sentence: Go watch the original. Unlike this sterilized computer generated FX production, it has a soul, and a script.I had high hopes for TRON Legacy to rise above the many FX/3D releases that seem to flood the theaters lately. Afterall, TRON harnessed computer generated graphics nearly 30 years ago- and at that time, it was ground breaking. But now? sure, the graphics are improved, but so is every similar FX assisted production since 1982. Computers are faster, designers have more cpu power to play with, and 3D projection systems finally hit it right. But what about everything else that makes a movie? like.. a plot?Sadly, TRON is just another casualty of eye candy. Whether it is the sublime virtual world which rehashes 28 year old ideas infused with modern pixel engines, or the pretty and naive Ms. Wilde tucked in her tights and serving as the Megan Fox of Tronville- TRON does not fly. It grudgingly crawls through a plot that is as expected and transparent as government propaganda: there's good, there's bad, there's conflict, and there's the evident triumph of good over evil. In the way, we meet characters which serve no point, have neither depth nor lifespan, and have nothing but to provide except for additional FX opportunities. TRON closely follows the footsteps of AVATAR: a technological demo with a script that can fit in a brochure. Stunningly boring.The ultimate star of the show, Bridges, tries hard but can't pull the plot on his own. Once in a while, he utters a notable comment with a hint of Big Lebowski which draws a few smiles, but has no one else in the cast to play with. Wilde plays a sexy role muttering a 3rd grader script, while Hedlund's role is the juvenile irresponsible punk with Brad Pitt and Robin Hood aspirations- leaving zero aftertaste. The only other memorable actor (besides Bridges) is Michael Sheen, which we're blessed with for far too few moments. Blame Disney for that choice.Tron Legacy is a waste of time. 28 years ago, Tron felt as if it had been brought back from the future. The new incarnation is technology demo, with sprinkles of Bridges and a remarkable sound track. Do yourself a favor and watch something else.
__label__1 First thing I want to say is that I was very annoyed that they only showed it in 3D at the theater. It was a waste of extra money: I kept my glasses off during the intro and when they were in the digital world I didn't really notice when it was 3D.The story wasn't interesting. It was annoying that it hinted at the Holocaust and Hitler (or any other fascist leader, doesn't matter): "genocide" of the ISO's, one person leading the rest to "perfection". I didn't see why Clu would bother entering the real world. If he can send a page to someone in the real world, he might as well just hit the systems of countries or banks, whatever -- what Master Computer wanted to do in the original.The characters were cliché and flat. It almost seems like movie makers take the same characters but put them in another jacket and story every time. There wasn't much dialogue and it still sucked. They used stupid one-liners you might've heard before. (Maybe not the exact same words, but the reaction to a certain situation, the way and the tone in which it is said is the same in a lot of movies.) Tron, or Rinzler didn't make sense to me. OK so, first he was a good program who believed in the users, then a while later in the New System CLU turns against Flynn/users and turned Tron into Rinzler. Rinzler's hunting down Sam, but then, in their...aerial pursuit.. he changes, goes "...I fight for the users!!" and crashes into Clu. Maybe I missed something, but I thought that was very random. (And why does his head whir?) The digital world itself was pretty wrong. You got that computer-feeling in the original Tron, but in Tron:Legacy it felt more like being on another planet. Dust blowing up, wind, curves, spilling blood (that drop), ... it all seemed wrong to me, because I always imagine a computer world to be more straight lines, 010101,pixel, etc.I had the impression they were advertising in the movie as well. Ipad, Nokia, mascara, ... I wouldn't normally care, but it was obvious when one of those girls were staring at the camera for a second too long.The only good thing about Tron: Legacy was the film score. Daft Punk did a great job! It really fit the idea and gave the right feeling. I still feel thrilled when I recall the intro of the movie. I almost wish they had just made the movie themselves, they would've done a better job.I'm not surprised that Tron wasn't a good movie. It's obvious that it's just another dump Disney made purely for the money. The Disney from my childhood is pretty much dead now.Anyway, if you haven't seen Tron: I wouldn't bother. Especially not if it's only in 3D; it's not worth the extra money. Unless you like Daft Punk and want to listen the music while eating eye candy.
__label__1 For months now the mainstream film media have been building this up. To me it was an utter failure of combined elements that could have worked if they had only paid for a decent writer to make it at all interesting. I seriously expected so much more, if not from the plot then from the action sequences. The light cycle scene was cleverly updated but lacked any tension being placed so early on in the film - it was so obvious that the generic programmes would bite it and not at all exciting watching both Clu and Sam simply show their feathers a little only for a completely random previously un-introduced (and a bit lame) element to interfere (tension!!!)-. Then talking. Then dinner and talking. Then Micheal Sheen being a nonce. Then Talking. Then badly staged fight scene without anyone really knowing why. Then talking and sitting on a slow moving toilet brush, talking. Meditation. Then Clu turns into a motivational speaker. Bit more random fighting. Wheres the disc and why is it so important? Why? Then over long chase sequence which did look quite pretty. Then we realise just how spiritualistic Flynn has become for the 100th time. BlahBlah.Avatar had cutting edge 3d special effects which fitted to the filmmakers priority of bringing the viewer into another world. Tron Legacy also has this priority. The difference: The world of Tron is a horrible, absurd place to have to stick your head into for 2 hours. I remember leaving the cinema after watching avatar depressed at how sad our world looks compared with pandora. I left the cinema laughing after tron legacy. And not especially interested in playing a computer game, ever again. Avatar was luckily supported by a half decent script and good acting. Tron fails in all of these areas.Nothing in this film caught my interest other than my concern for Sam's adorable little dog and my unanswered wonder as to who is feeding him whilst Sam is in Tronland following the yellow brick road. And I have to say that the Jeff Bridges effects failed to impress me. I think the official terminology is Digital Botox and the human eye is yet to be tricked. In fact the closer the cgi boys get to realism the more annoying it is because it is uncomfortable to watch something of two worlds. Either way I don't know if Clu was supposed to express any charisma or not, I would say the effects ruined the performance of Bridges. Technological achievements like this are only valuable if they add something to the art of performance. In this case they were annoying gimmick.I Don't recommend this movie to anyone, especially not younger children as it is dark without any sense to balance it out and far too confusing to be fun.
__label__1 The original Tron conveyed the, at this time very fresh, idea of a secret universe in the memory of a intelligent super computer with its technical possibilities of that time. The concept and execution was very innovative. The ingenious of the original movie was, to present the inside of a computer NOT from the user's point of view but from a perspective where the technical aspect determines the universe inside the machine. There were bits and bytes, RAM, CPU, data banks etc., a very technical and therefor nonhuman USER UNFRIENDLY and cold artificial environment. THAT made the inside of the machine so mysterious and interesting and menacing.The makers of TRON legacy made the BIG and unforgivable mistake to present the inside of the machine just like the user is EXPECTING it. The machine looks like that it was designed to simulate a world which was programmed FOR the user, so that the users can orientate themselves better:Hot chicks in wrinkled spandex, always fresh coiffed, characters have sprayed hairs, there is smoke, volume light, wind and atmosphere and completely digitized characters wear integral helmets with fogged visors when they breathe to heavy. Floors, walls are illuminated with neon tubes, materials like plastic, spandex, leather, which all sound like that, for instance, your hear the leather crumpling when the super cool characters move, the jets have engines with a fire boost, etc.. The irony of that movie is, that the artificial computer world seems more realistic than the real world: here, there exists in 1989 a portable laser powered by public electricity grid in Flynn's cellar which can scan living objects into a computer. Only 7 years back in the movies time frame, the same apparatus needed a f* huge whole building with a gigantic power reactor to function!! And now this thing is in Flynn's cellar, COME ON! BTW, the amount of data of a scanned human must be, at least, gigantic! BUT nobody at ENCOM never EVER realized that there is a huge memory leak since 21 years in their system! If that would not be enough, at the end of the movie, the portable laser is not only able to re-materialize a human BUT is also able to materialize a new life-form. Please tell me what a jerk Kosinski really is! Even if you never went to school or something, you might have heard of E=mc². The energy of generating 70 kg physical mass is roughly equivalent to the electric energy that 280 million households consume in a whole f* YEAR! This is double the energy of ALL US households consume! So WTF? What ruins the movie all the more, is the fact that nowadays every kid has a clear imagination about how the programmed world of a computer game should look like. To make this world louder, more colorful or bigger has a very limited effect not to mention that there is absolutely NO NEW experience (except the unbelievable amount of stupidity )to the audience. Even worse, this get's boring very fast. This movie is a totally exploitation of the original idea without any creativity of its own, actually it is very stupid and uninspired with endless boring dialogs and it is lacking anything of the visionary aspects of the original one. The acting is terrible, Garrett Hedlund is an underpants model not an actor. Obviously, the need to make the movie trendy and cool for generation PlayStation was the main directive for that poor execution. This movie is a parade example how an really incredible talentless and stupid hack and some business men without any fantasy can ruin a genius idea for ever.This makes me sad!
__label__1 Here's TRON: A Real cool guy driving around on his bike, living' on the edge cause "BOHOOO My father left me". He base-jumps from a skyscraper and...never mind.I wanted to walk out of the theater at least 14 times. And additionally one time when a ninja-program took a back flip and landed the COOL way, looking down, then slowly looking up. F(/&#! Endless over choreographed fighting-scenes, programs eating a pig for dinner...At that point my synapses overloaded and i felt like that guy in clockwork orange. I wondered if these programs would fart after eating that pork. In this perfected universe they have guns that jams. And why do they have big hangars for planes that actually fits inside a small stick anyway. The universe, the plot, the whole premise is built on a retarded thought you had the first time you smoked weed. Where is this actually happening? On the hard drive? Or maybe in the RAM, driving on light-bikes into the CPU...as a program..not literally of course. There is no new thoughts in this movie at all. I knew what was going to happen in every scene, except in the end when The Dude shows he in fact has powers that bends all rules in this strictly programmed world, and sends out a Playstation-RPG-power surge and helps his moron son get back to reality "not without you daddy!! GO son..just GOOO!!" He holds his fathers memory-ring over his head, HE-MAN style, into the bright stream of ...binary light, and gets sucked out of the digital world just in time before the whole shite collapses. Close call!I hate this movie for getting me to seriously consider shooting dirty street heroin into my veins just to forget about it. I will download the movie though, burn it on DVD, write some obscene stuff on it with a black marker pen, and then try to blow it up with firecrackers, if that fails i will simply burn it with a lighter and bury it.
__label__1 As an ardent fan of the first Cars, I was shocked at what an absolute mess this movie is. I was prepared for a certain level of disappointment from the trailers, but I didn't expect the sheer second-rate train wreck that is this movie. All the heart of the first film has been chucked out the window on the way to cashing in on merchandising possibilities.McQueen has been practically relegated to minor character status here (one wonders why Owen Wilson even bothered showing up). Occasional glimmers of clever humor are all but eclipsed by a rickety plot that can't bear the weight of all it's trying to accomplish. Mater's hi-jinx as the centerpiece of a ridiculous (and unfunny) spy plot go from annoying to disturbing as the violence ratchets up. While several critics have claimed this sequel is aimed at particularly young audiences, no other children's movie you're likely to see in the near future does more to glorify gun violence.Pixar has sucked all the dimensionality out of every returning character, and the new ones it's added are so one-dimensional as to be nonexistent. This is a pathetic offering from a studio that should know better.
__label__1 WARNING! I will ruin this movie for youI've seen all of the Terminator movies (all in their respective days) have read most of the comic book adaptions and have snored my way through the recent T.V series. And yes. Some incarnations were obviously better than others (to me) But, this turd of a film could not be further from the mark. And when I actually bothered to look up "McG"s body of work I can't say that I'm surprised. Gap commercials, music videos, Charlie's Angels... At what point did the financiers of this movie say "wow, we have to get this guy to direct the movie" But, I can't put all of the blame on one person. The entire creative staff has obviously gone to the Michael Bay school of film making...and failed. I only have 1000 word to work with...sooo...I shall list my gripes in point form. 1. Within 10 minutes of the title shot, this movie fired off one of THE BIGGEST Clichés IN WESTERN FILM. "It's too quiet in here (dramatic pause) It's like they're waiting for us" Seriously now! Is this the best writing that Hollywood can come up with? If this was an attempt at humour...it failed...just like the rest of this movie.2. Giant Robots!!! Loud noises!!! Almost all of the battle sequences in this movie played out like a stylized ripoff of Transformers. There were big walking robots, big robot sound effects, big robot guns and aircraft, big robots riding the robot aircraft, motorcycle robots... They even had little stabby robots that swam around in the water. And they all looked like something out of a cheesy mecha flick. All glossy and pointy looking. These are not the cold, machined gun metal designs that set this series apart from all the others.3. Chase scenes...chase scenes....followed by more chase scenes. #&#$ off with this already! How much time did these people fill with these blown out, CG'ed chase scenes? Foot chases, car chases and even air chases. "How do we transition from our crappy battle scene to our feeble attempt at character development?" Oh! I know!" Yep...you guessed it...4. Even more clichés... Yep...Just about all of them. I'll have to make sub-points for this. The irrelevant love interest cliché.The conflicted double agent cliché.The antagonist's fatal flaw cliché. "Let's just leave all of our nuclear power cells laying on a big table. They'll be OK"The incompetent villain cliché. No, a hydraulically powered mechanical assassin would not simply shoot/crush/eviscerate it's victims. But, would merely toss them around, fire it's weapons erratically and then stand underneath precariously placed heavy objects, blast furnaces etc... The (pathetically mangled) hero's sacrifice cliché. "Oh no! John Connor has been impaled through the chest with a ragged piece of metal! And, his heart is just about to fail! Here, take my perfectly good cyborg heart...that has just been crushed repeatedly with a giant metal casting....and then nearly punched out of my chest by another cyborg" Need I go on?This movie is big budget Hollywood hackery at it's best. And I still can't believe that it made it off of the script. I hope that the persons responsible for this mockery are ripped apart by wild dogs. Thank you and good day
__label__1 Alternate titles for this review: 1) A great sequel... to some other movie franchise.2) The new terminator has a heart. The movie doesn't.3) Go in expecting to be disappointed. You'll still be disappointed.Wow, was this bad. I stopped caring about anything that happened in this movie about 1 hour and 10 minutes in. I guess it was the second Huey helicopter crash with John Connor as both pilot and sole passenger that did it for me (it seems the U.S. army hasn't surplused any twin-engined Hueys yet, because Hollywood is still flying leftovers from "Apocalypse Now", even in the future).I also zoned out during the drawn-out battle with the Schwarzenator near the end, because I really didn't care about John Connor (or his cute, perky wife, though she was never in danger the entire movie - another dramatic mistake).This movie fails miserably in both aspects where the new Star Trek film shines: staying true to the original while making the new characterizations and situations compelling on their own merit.Even Sarah Connor's recorded voice didn't sound right. I'm pretty sure it was neither Linda Hamilton nor Lena Headey - either one would have been better. And while this movie needed to have a big-name celebrity like Christian Bale to have a chance at success without Ah-nold in the main role, it couldn't have been any worse if Nick Stahl and Claire Danes had been brought back. In fact, Thomas Dekker would have been more interesting to watch.I cared more about the people who got snatched up by the Martians in Steven Spielberg's "War of the Worlds" than I did about anybody in this flick. There was zero character development. The girl who's a combination of Newt from "Aliens" and the Feral Kid from "The Road Warrior" managed to be annoying without saying a word but, like Jaden Smith in "The Day the Earth Stood Still", you can't blame her for it, only the script non-writers.This film is practically shot in monochrome, except for the flames. We get it. To quote George Costanza: "When you're bleak, you're bleak".This movie reminded me of lots of other movies: "The Road Warrior", "Aliens", "Transformers", and even "Resident Evil: Extinction". Just not "The Terminator".Yeah, maybe it doesn't seem fair to give Star Trek's time-travel pretzel plot a pass and nitpick "Terminator Salvation" but I mean, there were two huge plot holes in this one that just plain insulted the whole series storyline: 1) SkyNet went through this complicated plot to lure John Connor in with its infiltrator, instead of just killing him with the infiltrator. Ditto with Kyle Reese. It made absolutely no sense, and that's even *without* any time travel. 2) For some reason, John Connor was (a) unable to trust a terminator even though he found out in part 2 that they can be trusted if programmed correctly and (b) totally stunned to find out that a terminator had flesh and blood and organs, even though that's the first type he ever encountered. What's that all about? Oh, was it supposed to be a big deal that the terminator didn't know it was a terminator? Like that's really hard to program... (and can you say "Total Recall"?). Then there's the whole confusion/inconsistency about exactly what type of damage will or won't stop a terminator.The movie tries really hard to create a sense of urgency with the rescue of the prisoners from SkyNet headquarters. It just doesn't work.OK, so Sam Worthington's and Anton Yelchin's performances aren't as wooden (or metallic) as those of the other actors. This minor fact alone does not a summer blockbuster (or a worthy sequel) make.I kept looking for some big, intense, dramatic scene that could have possibly made Christian Bale go ballistic on the director of photography. I must have missed it, and I won't be watching this turkey again to try and find it. "Terminator Salvation" fails miserably as a Terminator sequel. As a standalone, post-apocalyptic sci-fi vision it doesn't really fare much better.
__label__1 This is one of the worst movies of all time. Not bad in a Plan Nine from Outerspace kind of way. No much worse. I have only once before ever felt so cheated and that was watching Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull last year. Cheated because of all the talent that could have made a GREAT movies and instead just cashed in big paychecks.What makes this so bad is the destruction of a franchise through lazy writing and directing. Does anyone put effort into a script anymore or care about logic???? If the studio had enlisted any movie fan and given them a chance to read the script before this turkey was made, plot holes as large as a Mack truck could have been closed. Instead the Studio and Director relied totally on special effects to move this dog along. Wher can I start? Well, here are a couple of the biggest problems:1) Why does Skynet not just kill Kyle Reese????? He is their number one target, they capture him and instead of killing him, they just imprison him???? If they kill him then John Connor dies. Spock would throw up from this lack of logic. 2)What is Helena Bonham Carter's motivation in the beginning of the movie? She does not know at this time in history that Skynet will become self aware. How can she be involved in creating an infiltration machine without pre-knowledge of what will happen in the future? 3) The movie barely advances in the Terminator story. It is just a long television episode, the plot does not move along whatsoever. Perhaps they can just re-start the franchise and call this whole movie a bad dream like the ending of Dallas? 4) The acting is terrible, especially Christian Bale. He has one emotion and it is the same as he exhibited in that leaked internet tape earlier this year. Arnold's CGI performance is Oscar worthy in comparison. 5) Yes this is just a movie but in Sci-fi, it is important to follow the continuity and rules created in each films particular universe. A movie cannot take the lazy route and just makes things up when boxed into a corner. Here, there is a huge exposition scene near the end on a giant video screen with Helena Bonham Carter. Why does Skynet have a big video room to begin with? Ugh.Studio's exist to make money, and I suppose this movie will turn a profit. However, from a long term perspective this movie has diminished the value of the overall franchise and potential of any future films.
__label__1 I really have a hard time believing that ANYONE enjoyed this movie. This movie could have been so great. It could have been amazing. It could have been the best Terminator yet. But it wasn't. It wasn't even close. The story was terrible. There wasn't enough action. This was supposed to be a war, but there were no full scale war scenes. Christian Bale was just as stiff as John Conner as he was as Batman (cheesy voice, no personality).The movie did start okay. I thought it might go in a good direction, but then stupid things started happening. First of all they spent the first hour of the movie acting like Marcus is a person just to have the major revelation that he is actually a machine - but wait, we already knew that from all of the trailers out there, so we just spend the first hour of the movie saying to ourselves "why are they still acting like he's human"???? Then we do actually have a good action scene with the large terminators and the motorcycle terminators, but then another stupid thing happens. When Marcus is captured and Blair breaks him out, the entire resistance can't even catch him or kill him in their own home base!!! How could they possibly win a war against the machines when they can't even kill one in their own home???? It keeps going down from there. John conner sneaks in to the Skynet home base (very easily). Then there is a terribly boring fight scene that I swear they copied directly from the first two films. Then John plants a detonator on the pile of nuclear power cells that just happened to be sitting around and on his way out he blows the whole place up. If it were really that easy to walk in to Skynet and blow up a pile of power cells, why didn't they do that years ago. TERRIBLE.And just when I thought the movie couldn't possibly get any worse... it does. John injured his heart reenacting the fight scene from the first Terminator movie, so Marcus (the machine with a heart) gives John his heart. Awwww, what a sacrifice. I guess Marcus really was human. TERRIBLE.And then they had the nerve to end the stupid movie with John giving one of his terrible speeches leading right into the next movie. I really really really hope that if they do make another movie that someone else writes it, stars in it, produces it, and directs it.If this weren't a Terminator movie, I would have given it 3 stars for being so bad, but since it destroyed so much potential I couldn't give it any more that 1 star. TERRIBLE. I'm totally disappointed.
__label__1 As a terminator fan who was hoping for a revival of the franchise, what a letdown this movie was. Before going in depth about the movie, let's take a look at how this mess was made:Mistake #1) Newbie producers Derek Anderson and Victor Kubicek acquire the rights to the Terminator franchise. These two goons only have experience producing a low budget flick called "Cook-Off" to their credit and are absolute newcomers to the industry.Mistake #2) Derek Anderson and Victor Kubicek, not surprisingly as newbies, choose McG as the director. LOL, McG, the director of Charlies Angels! FFS, you can see where the movie is going now ...Mistake #3) The script is written and McG tries to cast Christian Bale as Marcus. Christian Bale says he wants to play John Connor and not Marcus. Unfortunately, John Connor has a 3 minute appearance in the original script and is not a significant character. At this point, the producers and McG have two viable options:Ditch the original script with Marcus and write a new one from scratch that explores John Connor's character in depth, if time allows.Say NO to Christian Bale, and stick with the original script if they are on a deadline. Memo to Derek Anderson, Victor Kubicek, and McG: THE TERMINATOR FRANCHISE CAN SELL ITSELF WITHOUT Christian BALE - STAR TREK PROVES THAT A BUNCH OF NO NAMES CAN SELL A MOVIE IF IT IS MADE WELL.Mistake #4) Oh my gosh! They decide to cast Christian Bale as John Connor and then go on to mangle the script to give John Connor a larger role. The script goes through various hands, and even Jonathan Nolan is brought in to save the script but there is little he can do. They are even trying to rewrite the script on set. FFS, you know a movie is in trouble if they are doing major rewrites of the script on set.Now that we know how the movie was made, here is my review: This movie has great special effects and action sequences. The problem is, it has no character development, the viewers could give a sh*t about the characters, and the story is garbage. In other words, it's the polar opposite of T2. T3 had lots of plot holes, but while T3 was letdown from T2, at least T3 attempted to give more attention to the characters.If all you want is mindless action and special effects, this could be a passable movie for you. If you are a true Terminator fan and wanted a movie that would delve into characters, where action is secondary to the story (ie. T2), this is not the movie for you.Since this movie cost $200 million to produce and so far, the box office receipts are $90 million, there are two possibilities: a) The Terminator Franchise has ended on the big screen. That would be sad but what can you expect with Derek Anderson, Victor Kubicek, and McG at the helm? b) Derek Anderson and Victor Kubicek never find the funding for T5 and are forced to sell it to a studio that is capable of making good decisions to make T5 (ie. start by picking a better director other than McG and find good writers).I surely hope it's the latter.
__label__1 TERMINATER: SALVATION is truly an abomination to the franchise - and don't for one second suspect otherwise. I read one thing in the paper yesterday that suggested "the critics liked it" -(?) -- it garnered an astonishing Two And A Half stars in our local rag - - (!!) -- with a caveat that "it has no heart" -- well there's a shocker for ya -- I do not need to be told that a piece of fecal matter has no cardiovascular system -- its a redundancy I can do without, thank you very much -- here is a movie that deserves not one whit more than a ZERO STAR rating. How on earth anyone - a professional critic or otherwise -- could even possibly give this movie more than ZERO STARS is beyond me. This sorry excuse for a movie is firing on ALL chambers when it comes to MISSING the mark: *SPOILERS* No shred of a plot with any grounded sense of coherence whatsoever, folks. The director "McG"'s notion of a plot can be summed up in one name, "John Connor." Oh wait, I forgot - there is a twist. (Don't worry about spoilers - - I couldn't possibly spoil this for you, and I don't mean that in a cheeky way. I literally mean that it is a physical impossibility for something without a plot to be spoiled. So read on. The twist is "Kyle Reese." Just throw in another iconic sounding character name with which an awestruck silence is generated every time its mentioned, and there you have it: the totality of this movie's "plot". (Don't ask me for an explanation: the movie offers none.) And just as bad as "no plot" is the excruciatingly unfortunate realization that the setting - nearly a decade in the future (2018) - has zero visionary qualities, and I have to point out here that it ain't for any potentially noble reason as having accurately predicted that not much will change in 9 years. No. It's because they filmed this with what must have been McG's and crew's own jeeps and equipment - throw some military cameo netting and things bought for cheap at your local army surplus store, and you have "Terminator: Salvation". When all the dust settles - - you sit there blinking in astonishment that there really wasn't one damn worthy thing about this movie - no awesome future setting and no fully realized "terminator army"; just a few badly strewn together props with stale cheesy dialog thrown in. But the movie did have some thought put into it, I guess. There is the token ragamuffin 9 year old girl with the nappy hair (check); her charming teenage companion with the mystery persona (check); and their god -given ability to pop out of nowhere with a convenient remote mine-trigger device to blow up titanic renegade Terminaters at a moment's notice (check). This movie is far less than the sum of it's assembled parts - assembled entirely from every genre movie that came before it. I kid you not: if you were to painstakingly eliminate each and every scene and reference to a previous movie (Mad Max, Road Warrior, Terminators, etc) you would be left with NOTHING. It is that unoriginal. So here's the deal. I've warned you not to waste your time and money and consciousness seeing this, and I meant it from the bottom of my heart. Seeing as how I happen to know that this is a "special" installment or continuation of a franchise that means a lot to us - I don't expect you to take my word for it. I know how it is. You want to find out for yourself; hell, you need to. So let's make a deal. Halfway through the movie, the only thought running through my head was "I should lead a revolt of audience members to the box office demanding our money back". God do I ever wish I had at least tried. To do so - I would naturally have had to begin hurling obscenities at the screen, and I didn't because, well I didn't want to ruin the possibility that others might be, cough, enjoying themselves *wince*. Do I ever regret it, now. When the ultimate slap to the face arrives (the end credits) -- you too will wish YOU had been the leader of such a noble revolt. So NOW you have the opportunity handed to you on a silver platter. I beseech thee all -- someone must take the responsibility to just yell out midway through this cinematic turd "THIS SUX!" with their fist in the air, and I can't imagine no one else in the theater agreeing or muttering their sympathetic consent. TAKE the opportunity to leap to your feet and look wildly around you. FIND the people frozen in their seats with eyes glazed over - decent people like you and me who have obviously INVESTED their hope, high expectations, valuable time, and hard-earned money - SNAP them awake to the realization that WE DON'T DESERVE THIS CRAP from Hollywood! Shout out dramatically "LET'S GO GET OUR MONEY BACK, PEOPLE!" and lead their way out of that theater and to the front lobby. I want to read about it in the papers, how good people in several mid-western states ROSE UP and DEMANDED their money back. Because if we all just sit there like sheep stunned into submission - then we deserve yet another installment of prefabricated plasticity shoved down our throats. Let this be a lesson to all who would blunder into a theater to see a movie by someone named "McG". If its zero nutrition fast food fake movie franchise that you want - then you know where to line up. TERMINATER: SALVATION opened in theaters nationwide Thursday, May 21st.
__label__1 I was stunned at how bad this movie is. I don't think I've ever seen a performance where Bale mails it in but I don't blame him. The story is beyond remedial. There's no suspense, no emotion, no plot and no point. The only reason this movie seems to have for being is that it looks cool. If you like mindless action then I guess you'll like this but what made the first 2 films great was the story (let's not kid ourselves, that's what makes any film great). It had suspense, characters that you cared about and most of all INTELLIGENCE and HEART. This one is so freaking obvious it's astonishing. To have these resources available to you and screw it up so monumentally...Maybe I should take a crack at writing a screenplay. I couldn't do any worse than this.
__label__1 Spoilers ahead. If you decide not to read them and go to see the movie instead, don't say I didn't warn you.I am appalled. I don't even know where to start. Maybe the title: Terminator Salvation. First, it's not even really a Terminator movie. John Connor was rewritten as the main character, which put Marcus Wright in the background, thus rendering a Terminator character secondary. But even if it was called John Connor Salvation, it still wouldn't make any sense because there is no salvation to be had.Honestly, what is the point of this "story"? What is the culmination of the events? Skynet wasn't destroyed. The resistance gained no advantage. NOTHING was accomplished! The humans are fighting the machines at the start and at the finish. One Skynet base - one - was blown up somehow. No idea how or when the entire facility was wired for implosion, but it was. So what was the purpose of all this fighting? Skynet designs a prototype Terminator that doesn't even know he's a Terminator. I thought the machines were supposed to be smart. This Terminator had every opportunity in the world to squish Kyle Reese's head, but - oh yeah, Kyle Reese is in this movie. Don't even get me started on that.But anyway, what the hell was Skynet's plan for killing John Connor?! Lure him to the Skynet base, let him inside to free hundreds of human prisoners, then send ONE naked CGI Arnold after him?! Are you freaking kidding me? And why was Kype Reese, Skynet's number one target, allowed to remain alive for - what, like three days? I don't understand any of this.The world's most advanced intelligence looks like a bunch of dumb-asses in this movie. John Connor takes down a super-advanced cycle-thing that's capable of countless super-fast calculations with a trick from The Road Runner cartoons? Give me a break! Who the hell wrote this script? Are you somebody's 7 year-old cousin? There's a prologue text that appears at the beginning of the film that offers a good idea - John Connor being seen as a false prophet by many. But where in the blue hell are these non-believers in the actual story? The only guy that doesn't believe in Connor is Michael Ironside, who simply doesn't believe because the script calls for it.The Oriental-looking woman - who somehow has freshly shampooed and deep-conditioned hair during a nuclear apocalypse - is tossed in for the sake of...well, who knows. She's there. She does nothing and acts irrationally.The acting in this movie is so bad, I can't think of a word to accurately describe just how bad it is. It's THAT bad. Every line is delivered in either a dramatic whisper or a dramatic shout when the context of the scenes usually calls for neither. Don't people TALK in movies anymore? Talking can be dramatic. Yelling when you don't have to and whispering for no reason is just retarded, especially when everything that's said is completely obvious and on the nose. It's not even melodramatic...it's worse.There are many references to the first two films that are as pointless as they are countless, thrown in simply because this movie has no good ideas of its own. Nobody is going to remember this film one year from now, but we'll still love the original two.I really can't think of one single redeeming quality of this catastrophic disaster of a movie. Maybe the fact that is has some giant robots, but I can get from Robot Jox...an equally terrible film that is at least a funny kind of terrible. T4 is just terrible. It's seriously one of the worst films I have seen in recent memory.
__label__1 The special effects were impressive, I will give you that. However, the rest wasn't. The 2 hour experience felt like watching titanic sink, in real time. Here is a list of the things that went wrong:1. PG13 rating: The director and producers wanted to make this movie family friendly, so they took away all the gore, death and decay that makes the zombie genre what it is. This made the zombies totally not scary and even on occasions towards the end, just plain laughable.2. Senseless plot: The UN sends a small team to investigate the beginning of the outbreak. They have a neurologist on the team, who incidentally cant stop using cheesy metaphors about mother nature. Why can't they send multiple teams, with more than one expert on each? After all it is clearly a high risk mission, casualties must be expected. After the neurologist dies right after his pretentious speech, it is clear that the whole thing was an excuse to put Brad Pitt in a dangerous situation so that we will feel tension. We still didn't because, see 3.3. Bad character development: None of the characters in the movie had any depth. As a result we didn't care if they lived or died. Pitt's family was just the detestable suburban family, who apparently does nothing but turn money into feces. Their marriage and children felt so plastic and ready-made that I personally would not have felt a thing if Pitt was torn apart by zombies in front of his family. Well, actually that might have improved this movie, alas it couldn't have happened because of 1.4. The ending sequence: Just as we think that the plot cannot get worse and we make peace with the idea of enjoying the special effects, the movie takes another down turn in the last 40 minutes or so. The special effects disappear and we find Pitt and his sidekick in a W.H.O. research facility playing hide and seek with zombies. There is no suspense because the ending is announced basically in the first 5 minutes of this sequence, Pitt will go into the zombie infested part of the building, get some disease samples and bring them back. They will use one of the samples to infect themselves and see if zombies will lose their appetite. They do, and we win, with another pretentious speech about how it is not the end but just the beginning. Yawn.5. Plot holes: a) Zombies can diagnose a terminal illness just by looking at someone and for some reason, they avoid that person. This doesn't make any sense at any level. First, even a doctor with years of medical training can't do that without extensive testing. How can a mindless zombie, who cant figure out how to unbuckle her seat belt, do it just after a glance by the corner of her eye? Second, why the hell would zombies avoid a sick person? There is no reason. After all, the virus, or whatever that is causing the outbreak is not harmed by any other disease. The W.H.O. scientists said so themselves.b) The W.H.O. facility is in Wales, Britain. Among the weapons they have in their arsenal is a baseball bat. Does the director even know where Wales is? Does anyone, one soul in Wales, own a baseball bat? Was that so difficult to make it a cricket bat? Come on now, I think that the director is a bit of a thickie but I can't believe that no one who looked at this movie pre-release had seen Shaun of the Dead. And to add insult to injury, the soldier girl with one hand picks the baseball bat. This scene alone is enough to prove that the director of the movie is blind from birth, because anyone who had at least one functioning eye at any point in his life and used it to glance at a baseball bat would have immediately realized that it is a two-handed weapon. How could a special forces soldier could not recognize it as such and not pick the crowbar?c) The cellphone battery: In one scene, the cellphone's battery is declared dead. In a later scene, it is working again. Really?d) When they decide to recover the disease samples, they give Pitt no briefing about which containers contain what. But apparently, at least one container is full of deadly stuff, which would kill him immediately. Why? Why? OMG, why? The security cameras show the room clearly. All they need to do is to seat Pitt and the soldier girl in front of one of the displays and show them where the goodies are before sending them in.e) Pitt has no special combat, first aid or survival training. He apparently learned all that stuff on the field, and he is not a scientist either. Finally, he doesn't have experience as a commanding officer. So, why would he, instead of literally thousands of military people who were purpose-trained for such a mission, is chosen to lead the mission? It doesn't make any sense. It would have made a lot of sense if his UN friend said something like "Look, I convinced these people that you are the best man to lead this mission though we both know that you aren't. You are just a guy who spent ten years handing out blankets to African countries. But I had to do it to save your family, alright? They would have never let you on the ship otherwise and you would have died in Philly." That would have not only sealed this plot hole, but also would have given Pitt's character a tragic and desperate quality, which would have helped us care about him. But the mindless zombies who made this movie missed this chance too.
__label__1 SPOILER ALERT. SPOILER ALERT! You have been warned.The Premiere -I was at the London World Premiere last week, and Interestingly there was clearly tension between Mark (Director) and Brad Pitt. I would have thought a director of this size movie would be able to make a speech. But no. Reading from cards he fumbled over his words, got his actors names seriously wrong in front of 1000 people and was clearly very very nervous. Which is odd because any director should be excited or proud to be presenting their work to the world!Brad Pitt in interview said they chose Mark as he was really good at the little emotional moments between characters. Well they mush have cut those bits out.The movie -A zombie film with no blood? I've no idea what the zombies were doing as we never see them kill anyone! They just run around a lot, far too fast for a 'human being'. No decapitated zombies, and a incredibly poor script that could have been knocked together in an evening. Speaking to actors who worked on the film they told me a lot of the dialogue was improvised. And it shows. Good dialogue is written. It is very hard for an actor to come up with great dialogue on set with crew around, lights, explosions, gun fire and a budget and schedule pressing down on you - that is what rehearsals and, dare I say, a screenwriter are for.I just don't think Mark Forster (Quantum of Bollox) knows how to direct. No emotional connection to any of the characters. No big climax at the end and the least threatening Zombie in the history of movies. Click click click. A tedious V/O from Brad at the end, about "only just the beginning, of the war, YAWN..." We have heard this a hundred times.There was some truly awful acting, characters that appear and go in a scene, that do nothing, and flimsy science that is just insulting to anyone who can actually think.The only good bit was the Zombie as Ants scene, but it would have been hugely improved if a zombie with a giant leaf walked past in the background.The audience laughed at several moment, that I don't believe the director even realised were gags! Brad doesn't even really do any acting. He does a bit of running around and a fight or two. No great lines, and I don't really believe that he loves his kids and wife so terribly much.Best thing in it was - Daniella Kertesz, but her scenes are clearly cut to bits, unlike her hand, which just seems to be fine after a couple of gin and tonics. I'll have what she's having!And leaning suitcases against a curtain? Seriously. That was really bad.The film could have been saved in the Edit - with some clever re-positioning of the major scenes, to get the structure right, but having seen Brad and Mark together, they had clearly fallen out of love with the movie.Nothing here we haven't seen in 28 Days Later, or any other zombie film, or even The War of the World that was written 100 years ago.At the end the applause was half hearted and everyone got up and left super fast.The aftermath -Please GOD can we stop giving bad directors a second, and in this case 10th chance. This film made me angry that a studio can waste so much money on what was a mediocre idea even at the beginning, and gave it to a director who has a proved track record of not being able to fix a bad script, or direct action.The budget on this would keep an independent film maker in business for the next 400 years - or if we put that in a real time scale - all the way back to Elizabeth the 1st.Frustrating.Nothing to see here ladies and gentlemen, move on.
__label__1 The zombie outbreak starts with Brad Pitt with his family in stopped traffic. There's a huge explosion with no explanation of why. Then, either a huge horde of humans are running from a small amount of zombies, or a huge horde of zombies are chasing a small amount of humans. You can't tell who is who, because all you see is a mob of people running in the same direction. Occasionally you see a zombie or two leap after a human, so you can tell they're not all human. But otherwise they could have been filming the bull runs in Spain (without the bulls).The zombies are part of what ruins the movie. They run faster than humans can, leap onto flying helicopters and can stack themselves 20 zombies high to climb walls. They can detect any terminal illness in any human, no matter the disease. No explanation is given how someone can go from ordinary human to super zombie in 12 seconds. Or why zombies just bite humans and then run away. If it takes 12 seconds to turn, then why don't they continue to attack for 12 seconds?Next, all the zombies are gone somehow and we see humans looting a store. The zombies are attracted to sound, but somehow they can't hear people pushing shopping carts on pavement. After some shopping, Brad takes his family to an apartment building which seems to be void of zombies. He convinces a family to let him and his family into their apartment. After a beer, Brad tells the father that him & his family should go with him. However, the father decides to stay. Bad decision. When Brad Pitt tells you to do something, you do it. Within seconds of Brad leaving, all of a sudden there's a hundred zombies outside the door breaking in.Brad's on his way to the roof for a helicopter rescue while being chased by zombies. All of a sudden the little boy from the family shows up. No explanation of how he got by all the zombies, nor an explanation of why the zombies stopped coming to allow Brad to save the boy. All we know is when Brad Pitt is around, zombies either stop coming, or become very calm. Almost like they just took a Valium.Next they're off to South Korea. Nothing happens except Brad learns he needs to go to Israel, and the North Koreans are fine because they extracted the teeth of their entire country. (Can't infect without teeth) How that stops the 4 billion people already infected with teeth is never explained. Brad gets to Israel to witness they built a wall around the country and survived the zombie apocalypse. Not for long. They're letting in people from everywhere. All you see is humans entering the country through metal walkways. Who knows where the walkways lead to or why the zombies can't get into them. Or can they? There's a scene later in the movie where a zombie picks up a human in the supposedly safe walkway, and infects him. If that's all it took to infect the walkway, then why weren't they infected a long time ago?Why didn't Israel get infected? Because they built a huge wall. Why did every continent get infected at nearly the same time? Because as explained in the movie, it was the airplanes. Big cities were affected first and worst because of the international airports. Did Israel have airports? Absolutely. They had a line of planes leaving every minute. Did zombies infect the planes? They certainly infected the plane Brad Pitt left Israel on. So why didn't Israel get infected by one of the planes entering the country? Never explained.The reason why the zombies took over the country is dumb. After they let in refugees, the refugees start singing and that noise attracts the zombies. Forget the fact that they have helicopters constantly orbiting the wall, or the never ending line of planes taking off from their airports. It's the children singing that triggers the zombies to scale the wall and conquer the country. In South Korea, army soldiers gave advice to aim at the knees to slow them down, and then the heads to kill. So obviously we're not dealing with invincible zombies. So how do they manage to stack themselves 20+ zombies high, and then drop all the way to the ground uninjured? No broken bones. But if you shoot their knees they drop like flies.Then there's the amputation scene. Israel is being overrun by zombies so badly, the girl running behind Brad gets bit. They kill the biting zombie, and then conveniently, zombies stop coming so Brad can amputate the hand of the girl, and bandage her up. I told you Brad Pitt has a calming effect on zombies!!About the "terminal illness" theory. How did they not discover that the entire cancer wing of a hospital would be unaffected by the zombie virus. Or were the zombies simply avoiding Brad Pitt? I wish Brad Pitt infected himself with a virus that made him invisible to me.
__label__1 What a waste of money.... and I do not only mean for the tickets. The whole production must have been quite expensive. And I guess the taxpayer pays for all scenes where the US Navy or Airforce shows up? For what? The movie failed on all accounts and didn't even manage to create tension or scare people. The audience even started laughing in certain scenes. Uff I really don't know where to start: Satellite phones that work inside steel vessels, EMP kills electronics including satellite phones but only hours late they seem to be working again, amputations that don't cause the victim to bleed to death, kids that are totally cool after losing their families (high five!).... and i could go on and on. By the way the sponsors of the movie must have been Duct tape and Pepsi. The only creepy feeling i get is that movies like this or "The Purge" play a certain role to prepare society for future apocalyptic events. God bless America!
__label__1 The only movie I have ever seen that is worse than this is Alien Vs. Predator. No blood, no gore, no swearing, no zombie movie. Brad Pitt's arrogance and feeling of self-worth will suffocate you as you watch this steaming pile of cr*p. I don't even care that it doesn't resemble the book, it was a terrible movie no matter how you slice it. Apparently Brad's artistic addition to the movie was that when humans become ill the zombies won't attack them...yet one of the guys who help Sir. Brad super-UN inspector Pitt only has an injured knee, not an illness. Brad Pitt is the only actor in this movie that has any real screen time, it might as well be called "Brad Pitt saves the world (in the most uninteresting 2 hours ever). This movie is bad and anyone involved in writing/directing/producing it should feel bad.I hate you Brad Pitt, with every bone in my body. Since you "made this film for your kids" by giving it a PG-13 rating I hope one day they grow up, read the book, and despise what you created.
__label__1 So I think everyone is aware this film has had a lot of troubles, and for those of you that weren't, you will soon see why if you waste you money, let alone your time on this excuse of a film.Like a number of people that have posted I also wanted to believe this film would offer something, but it doesn't. It is not original, the SFX are average, the acting is poor.I like Pitt in most his films, but in this one, I honestly think this is some of the worst acting of his career - look out for the scene where Pitt is in the WHO building in the last act when he finds out that all the dangerous viruses are in the B wing where.... you guessed it all the zombies are, I actually laughed out loud at his acting it was that bad.The films jumps about and you develop no emotion for any of the characters, even from the opening scenes I just didn't buy into the loving family that Pitt was supposed to be a part of.The end of the film is also one of the worst closures to a film i have seen. It was if, they hadn't filmed an ending so thought how the hell do we bring this to a close, and a bright spark said I know we'll get Pitt to explain it all via narration that will keep the fools that have sat through it to the end happy.In short zombies do exist - this film is proof of that, it should have died before it got to release but somehow it made it back from the dead. Now all I need to do is vaccinate myself against this monstrosity by watching an equally bad film.
__label__1 For those who would have watched all previous x-men movies, this movie will make it all go waste(except x-men first class). Actually the whole movie is based on humans capturing mystique in 1973, some years after the time in x-men first class, and using her DNA to make powerful sentinels to eliminate mutant race. Now here maybe some questions that you might think after watching the movie: 1. If Mystique was captured in 1973, how did she make an appearance in x-men 1,2,3? 2. How can Magneto control the sentinels(robots) and really large objects (A Football stadium) in 1973? 3. If the future is changed, then wolverine would never get his adamantium claws as Mystique takes her in the end of movie. So was there any sense watching x-men origins wolverine? 4. Finally, if no-one dies, than is there any sense of watching x-men 1,2,3 where many characters(Silver Fox, Scott, Jean, Stryker, etc) gets killed? Answer to all these questions is: The directors think the public is stupid and they will earn no matter what crappy story based x-men story they make.
__label__1 Star Trek Into Darkness should be renamed Star Trek In Name Only. What has always distinguished Star Trek from other sci-fi is the thoughtful and nuanced way that philosophical and sociological commentary was woven into the stories. Star Trek is not just a lot of sci-fi nonsense but a meaningful exploration of what it means to be human. In the past, Star Trek has been intelligent and character driven. Now it is all fancy CGI and snappy one-liners. Abram's Star Trek is an action-for-action's sake Kirk and Spock buddy flick. The "surprises" Abrams plants aren't surprises if you're familiar with the Star Trek universe. His preference for violence and political intrigue makes Abrams' vision more Star Wars than Star Trek.The fill-in-the-blanks plot is a repetitive onslaught of video-game like CGI sequences separated by brief breaks used to set up the next CGI spectacle. The first half begins with a scene taken from Raiders of the Lost Ark and quickly moves to The Return of the King's Mount Doom. Cumberbatch's attack on Starfleet HQ is a scene stolen from Godfather 3. When Cumberbatch is captured, he and Pine briefly become caricatures of Hannibal Lecter and Agent Starling from Silence of the Lambs. The second half attempts to remake The Wrath of Khan but is backwards and upside down. Instead it is practically a beat-for-beat repeat of the identically plotted Star Trek Nemesis.The cast was the best thing about the last movie but not this time. The other familiar crew members each get a brief moment in the spotlight but for the most part they fixate on comedic asides. The romance between Uhura and Spock is unnecessary and actually diminishes Uhura's character. Alice Eve is little more than eye candy. Peter Weller's Admiral Marcus is a disappointment. Karl Urban was eerily good as McCoy last time but stays in the background this time, a third wheel on the Kirk/Spock bicycle. Pine's beefy frat-boy Kirk is an exaggeration of Shatner's Kirk. When he is angry he sounds like a bratty child. Cuberbatch's performance is the best thing this time and overshadows everyone else.I left the theater thinking that my free passes were over-priced.
__label__1 JJ, you really are destroying a large piece of scifi history.Star Trek was never an action based show/movie. It was always a story that had supporting action elements. This movie is completely devoid of any cohesive story and is an action junkies dream come true.Kirk in the original series was confident, capable, intelligent, suave, etc.... The new and improved JJ version of the character is a moron. Don't get me wrong, I really like the choice of actor, but the character portrayal which is dictated by the writers and directors is everything the original Kirk was not.Space ships crush under pressure....its physics dumba**es...the Enterprise is not a submarine. I could go on and on, but I find it all a bit depressing. Star Trek is after all just a piece of fiction. ...now lost to time to only be remembered by a new generation as bad fiction.
__label__1 Since it has now become (dilithium) crystal clear that J.J. Abrams and his team of writers have COMPLETELY dismantled the entire Trek universe we once knew -- the one that was built so meticulously by Gene Roddenberry (and later, Harve Bennett and Nick Meyer too) -- we must now embrace a Trek product that will likely insult and disgust most purists, plus any ticket buyer who wants something more than a movie enjoyed by ADHD attention spans.This "Into Darkness" film continues where the 2009 effort left off, and with much the same approach, but the decibel level is harder on the eardrums this time: more explosions, more stunts, more fisty-cuffs, more chases (both in space and Terra Firma), more phaser shots and more temper tantrums from Kirk and Spock both.I could rhetorically say something like, "WTF? Why is this STAR TREK? WHY!?!?!?" and then launch into a heated Trek-purist diatribe attacking the intellectually-challenged, comic book-level screenplay penned by Orci, Kurtzman and Lindelof. But instead, let us try to examine the movie as a space-bound rip-off of the "Die Hard" franchise, which obviously are the terms on which the film hopes to succeed.The film's plot presents a saturnine, black-overcoated menace named John Harrison (played woodenly by Benedict Cumberpatch), who starts blowing up buildings in London, then shooting at a roomful of Starfleet's top brass during a staff meeting. He then escapes to the Klingon homeworld to hide out, and will presumably resume his mysterious rampage against the Federation later.But not if James T. Kirk can help it. Even if it means starting a war with the Klingons, our risk-taking Captain gets the green light from Admiral Marcus (Peter Weller) to warp the Enterprise over to Kronos, armed with some secret missiles and an undercover mission imperative. As Kirk tells his crew over the intercom, "Let's go get the son of a bitch."Such a standardized, by-the-numbers action yarn has succeeded in efforts produced by the Jerry Bruckheimer stable, for example, or even the second "Aliens" movie. But here, the film feels so overstuffed with chases, phaser beams and mortal combat, it's much like the second Indiana Jones movie from 1984; after a while, we become numb to the "excitement" and viewing this movie is like riding a roller coaster that simply won't stop, even long after the rider has had enough "thrills."****SPOILERS START HERE ------ Further ruining the film is the decision by Orci and Kurtzman to "unmask" John Harrison as Khan, the genetically-engineered super-baddie from the original Trek that the late, great Ricardo Montalban elevated to legendary Trek status. By forcibly shoving Khan into the "Into Darkness" storyline, the writers seemed almost desperate to include a familiar face as a crowd pleaser, but I found this "unmasking" about as convincing as a cheesy moment in a daytime soap opera, and it is essentially where I gave up on the film (about when the third act began).From there, the movie worsened (for me) because soon after, we are then supposed to shed tears for our gallant Captain Kirk sacrificing himself in the Enterprise's warp core chamber to save his ship and crew. Orci and Kurtzman try to duplicate the same touching moment from the "The Wrath of Khan" (when Spock dies) by practically duplicating some of the dialogue from that 1982 film. They are reminding us that they know their Star Trek, but I found this moment to be gimmicky and as such, it registered a complete emotional zero.Spock himself, as written by Orci and Kurtzman, also seems little more than a gimmick in these films now, especially at the film's climax, which uses our ever-logical Vulcan as a John Rambo wannabe, as he mercilessly pounds his fists into Khan's face, all in the name of revenge for the loss of his pal Jim Kirk. Much of the movie portrays Spock in the same simplistic manner, and his point-counterpoint interaction with the all-more human Kirk has none of the old magic that Shatner and Nimoy once provided so effortlessly.As I said earlier, forget the fact that this movie is a horrifying abomination for Star Trek purists. Instead, just consider the fact that we have a new franchise, one where you check your brain at the door, don't concern yourself with characterization, and just ignore the words, "to boldly go where no one has gone before." (those words were spoken by Chris Pine at the fadeout, and hearing them after watching THIS film was a moment of bitter irony for me, I might add)I wish J.J. Abrams would stick to the new "Star Wars" films and leave it at that.
__label__1 No lie, this was one of the worst movies I've seen in awhile. Thin, dull plot that's already a rehash from a prior film. Paper thin characters. Zero intellectual or emotional depth. There was nothing challenging about this story, nothing thought provoking or even intriguing. Basically, bad guy wants to blow some *beep* up and after a bunch of explosions and hand-to-hand fights and crappy one liners, he's stopped by our heroes. The end. This kind of formula occasionally produces an awesome movie or two, but those movies are usually fresh and intelligently made in some way that makes them stand out. This movie was not intelligently made, not at all. Seriously, the writing here seemed like a seventh-grader's rendition of how adults are supposed to act: the Uhura / Spock 'fight' was like a scene you'd overhear in a middle school hallway or something. It was laughable. The few moments that should have been stirring sucked because they were just straight rips from Wrath of Khan. On screen, it seemed like explosions, gunfire, and lens flare dominated probably 80% of the shots, and the effects looked like something from a B-grade Xbox game. There was so much CG "action" that it all ended up being pretty boring. I never felt any sense of danger. Worst of all was that constantly swelling score with the same series of notes over and over and over again. You know what I'm talking about. I mean, damn, it was cool the first couple of times, but when the 18th minor protagonist triumph was accompanied by this same bombastic progression, I was curled up in a fetal position. Please, just make it stop. Beyond all of these issues, Star Trek was never supposed to be about endless violence and effects and one liners. It seems like Abrams has turned the series into a moderately more upscale version of Transformers, and it's too bad. There was so much more that could have been done. So yeah, this movie sucked. A lot. I can't believe the rating it has on here. I'm starting to wonder if most of the voters work for the studios or if they've received lobotomies or something...
__label__1 This would give Prometheus a run for it's money, but at least Star Treks plot made sense. Only problem is it was really reaching to connect the dots. So much that if Gene was alive today, it would have killed him.In fact I'm calling out anyone attached to this movie as to really being a Trek fan. Star Trek isn't suppose to be about Halo firefights, starting wars, and building warships. It's suppose to be how we as humans came together as technology on earth advanced. Then traveled the stars sharing our wisdom to civilizations who were just like we once were.If anything this movie is a reflection on today's society and it's sickens me. When the original TV showed aired it was during troubled times ( I'm only 37, but I learned all about that stuff from The Wonder Years). People 30 and under had little hope for the future.Wars, Cold Wars, Nukes, Political Corruption-- No one at that time thought we as the human race would live to see the year 2000. Then came Star Trek. It showed a future where mankind put its differences aside. We worked together for a common goal. We seek knowledge through exploration and looking back at our own history. And not only that, but we were the conscience that helped others see the wrongs they were committing. Star Trek gave young people hope.THEN THERE'S THIS MOVIEExplosions, Loud music, Gun Fights, Fist fights, head squashing, jumping, running, explosions, explosions, explosions. Did I mention Explosions?!! I'm not sure because this movie probably had more explosions than TOS and TNG combined.This is an insult to what Trek once was. It pisses on what Star Trek 2 was really about-- The man who never faced death, but stared it in the face-- Only in this one he dies and is brought back to life without a sequel. It crapped all over Kahn as well, who was in essence a remnant of who the human race was in the late 20th century. NOT A FREAKING SUPER SOLDIER WHO JUST MURDER-DEATH-KILLED FOR NO REASON.AND ABOUT THAT PLOT.Kahn was a one man army in this movie-- So one would think if he defrosted his people, all 72 of them, they'd be unstoppable-- Instead he puts them in Torpedoes to ruin Robocops plan of starting a war with the Klingons to defrost them later...WHAT THE AM I TALKING ABOUT I DUNNO BUT THAT WAS THE PLOT!!This movie is for morons who couldn't get into the original Star Trek because they probably see it as old, boring, and full of bad actors. Let's not forget the pride of TOS was the fact all 80 episodes were well written.Something Into Darkness isn't. This isn't even good fan-fiction. This is an embarrassment. It cost millions to make, it will make over billion at the box office.Like I said, this is more of a reflection on our society in general and it disturbs me that Star Trek as turned into a mindless 2 hr romp and not a beacon of hope for the future of mankind like the original series did.The only HOPE these JJ Treks bring is the Star Wars movies he'll make will be just as mindless, which fits perfectly for Star Wars, not for Star Trek.
__label__1 Paramount Pictures, director JJ Abrams and writers, Orci, Lindelof, and Kurtzman have once again proved that they figure Trekkies will go see anything as long as it's got the name "Star Trek" on it. If you set out to write a prequel to an existing work, then there can be nothing in the prequel which prevents the original from happening. It's simple, logical, cause-and-effect. Yet the 2009 movie contained story elements which effectively precluded at least one of my favorite episodes of TOS, "Journey to Babel". I'd hoped they'd learned how to write by now, but "Into Darkness" creates new paradoxes that mean that several other episodes cannot now occur (and more than just one particular episode, and its movie sequel, which have been mentioned in several other reviews). The claim that Abrams' version of Star Trek represents an "alternate universe" is nothing but a cheap cop-out explanation, made up after the fact, in an attempt to excuse extremely sloppy writing. "Alternate universe"? Well, maybe there's an alternate universe "me" who'll go see the next Star Trek movie. The "me" in this universe isn't going to be fooled a third time.
__label__1 I'm truly ridiculed by the high ratings this movie got. An 8.2??? It clearly pays to air absolute ridiculous dribble with a whole lot of even more ridiculous 100%-non-stop-action in it, and the masses just love it. I'm no Trekkie and I actually enjoyed the previous movie, but this one feeds you utter and complete crap and just requires you to completely abandon your brain on entry to be able to enjoy it, let alone log in here to rate it highly. This movie is an utter insult to anyone with an IQ above 80 willing to think for just mere seconds at a time. And I'm not even kidding with that.Just a few questions highlighting the ridiculous plot and even more ridiculous plot holes:*SPOILERS FOLLOW* Why the *piieep* does Kirk hide the Enterprise within the ocean of an undeveloped planet? He could have just orbited it. Since when do Enterprise class *space*ships also have a *submarine* function by the way? How does Khan get a top level Starfleet officer to blow up himself plus his super top secret Starfleet agency AFTER saving his daughter? By asking nicely? After the blowing up of the archive, how does Khan get flying to a top secret Starfleet (MILITARY!!) meeting with ALL TOP DOGS present.. completely unnoticed, with the perimeter completely *unguarded and defenseless*? Are you kidding me?? Instead of simply using a missile which would have killed anyone present instantly Khan uses some kind of phaser machine gun on the room, gunning for minutes but leaving many alive and even unharmed? Art thou joking or something? After his ship gets blown up by Kirk with a fire extinguisher (is that a joke or what?) how the *piieep* does Khan beam out with a standard issue *portable* beamdevice to a Klingon planet *lightyears* away? While just before an *Enterprise-class* beamdevice can't even get a normal fix on Spock in a volcano a few *miles* away? Please.How the hell does Khan get access to his 72 man crew, putting them in 72 torpedoes, while exactly that crew was used by the admiral to blackmail him in the first place? Why the hell would Khan put them in torpedoes in the first place if he had access to them, in stead of just defreezing them? Why would the admiral load all 72 super top secret torpedoes created onto Enterprise, while only 1 or 2 would be needed for the mission? Apparently with the bloody things never even *tested*?? And no-one made the "hey 72 torpedoes -> 72 Khan crew missing" connection? Why would the torpedoes created by Khan to save his crew be set sharp to explode 'on touch' in the first place? You'd expect Khan to disable them? And ofcouse just blindly janking out some part of it by some blonde babe that knows nothing about them miraculously stops the detonation 1 second before blow-up.. Since when do Startrek hand communicators have the ability to communicate over Lightyears distance from the Klingon planet Chronos allllll the way to earth? And at the same time the Enterprise radio can't reach earth for a distress call that they're being shot up by the Big Bad Admiral when it's as close to it as being pulled in by earth's gravity?How does the Enterprise mechanic get into an ultra top secret base with a standard issue Starfleet Shuttle unnoticed? How did he even get his hands on the shuttle in the first place, since he resigned his position/function? How (and WHY actually?) does the Enterprise mechanic get into an ultra top secret highly secured battleship? How does he get into a minutes long conversation with an undoubtedly commando-class crewman while being found AFTER disabling the ship with EVERYONE looking for an intruder with the order to put him down IMMEDIATELY, giving The Good Mechanic the chance to open the airlock for Kirk to get in?And so on and so forth. And I'm not even touching character interaction yet.I have no idea where the writers of this nonsensical dribble learned to write a plot but I'd suggest them to pick up another job. Cleaning toilets or something would be a great start. But oh well, the drone masses just love it, so we'll surely have more of this kind of crap to deal with unfortunately...
__label__1 Yet another 3dFirst of all, I do not care about graphics. Graphics are not the reason I watch a film. I rather enjoy a good story, consistency, engaging action, drama, a nice plot - none of witch the subject in hand has.Story:Well, if you know Wrath of Khan, then do not bother, just imagine Spock instead of Kirk.Engaging action:Wile there was action, plenty, I was struggling to see reason - this makes it non engaging. It does not matter that they are in trouble running from indigenous people if they should of not been there in the first place, nor Enterprise under water, nor Kirk on the Kronos planet fighting inconsistent looking Clingons! DramaKirk in Spock running in the woods in opening scene - why?Prime directive trashed for no good reason - huh?Spock relationship issues during mission - really?Kirk revived by Khan blood - no one saw that coming?Big/mean Enterprise is faster and more powerful that small/peaceful Enterprise - oh no!Kirk and Khan are buddies (temporary).Plot:Still unclear who wanted to do what.Slow, predictable, dialog really lame (school like)Khan never reveal his ultimate goal.Kirk was pretty much a dice (remember his captain of Enterprise) - slightly constant was his need for mindless vengeance - nice touch.The only one actual important element to the story came in the form of a paranoid admiral that wants to fight Clingons in a improbable vessel.In the end it all proves that Kirk is nothing more that incredibly stupid, vengeance indulging, risk freak Enterprise CAPTAIN - we all like that don't we?. And there are 72 more reasons in form of "manned" photon torpedoes - OK, so that is more easy to do then to just kill them - sure I got it.Consistency:Lately, warp drive creates magic dust.Clingons had collectively changed as a race.Enterprise can swim.Cardasian beverages can travel time.Kronos planet has no defenses.If this would of been shoes, I would of taken them back to the store and ask for my money back! But it was in 3d, I mean that is all so cool!
__label__1 Easily the worst film I've seen in years not to mention the worst (Star Trek?) movie ever. I've been a Star Trek fan for over 25 years and seeing how a Hollywood hotshot-director destroys absolutely everything he touches was especially painful for me in case of Star Trek.Nevertheless I approached watching this movie with clean slates. That didn't help - the movie is an absolute insult to Star Trek. I could now go over all the stuff that simply didn't feel right but really, why bother? The story was absolutely hideous and full of plot holes which could be easily spotted by a two year old. Some of the characters were simply put in the movie to appeal to older Star Trek fans but in this reboot they are so shallow and distracting that it hurts. The character that really showed potential was the one played by Cumberbatch because for a couple of minutes I really though his rendition of a famous villain could be so good. I was wrong. He was simply wasted in favor of some brainless action and as a result of, yet another, plot hole.However the most insulting thing in the whole movie had to be the scene at the end which was simply a recreation of the famous death scene from the original "Wrath of Khan" yet with reversed roles. It just showed how lacking the whole idea of rebooting Star Trek was because on one side it insists that it was a separate timeline and everything can happen but on the other side it shows that the best it can come up with is a refined idea from the originals.To conclude this short review. My 1/10 score is not affected by any kind of rant or feeling that I need to rate the movie so low just to counter all the high scores. No. It is my honest opinion deeply influenced by so many flaws and scenes that any honest Trekkie would deem insulting.
__label__1 (THIS CONTAINS SPOILERS PEOPLE, YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED)I'll start with the good: Cumberbatch is excellent and knows how to make a good villain, but only when we do realize who he is I can't help but think it's an imitation of the previous version. Peter Weller makes an excellent admiral and really does bring presence to the screen.The action and visual effects are all excellent, but this is to be expected of a film this large and Abrams does a solid job giving every crew member their moment to shine, bar one character whose names should have been Mrs. Plot Point.(SPOILERS)My main problem with this film is the fact that for those fans out there, there will come a moment where you put two and two together and sigh in contempt - which I heard about another 70 people do at the same time as me. The whole third act kind of felt like a slap to the face to Trek fans, I'm no die hard Trekkie but I enjoy the films, and every throw back to Khan felt forced and melodramatic. The fact that Quinto's Spock can call Nimoy's Spock out of the blue is cheap and out of place, and the whole radiation chamber scene while "clever" for reversing the roles is boring and predictable. But if you haven't seen Wrath of Khan then this will be quite a shock, for a few minutes at the least.Overall, I wish that the Kilngons had been given a larger role as they were quite awesome, and I have the feeling they will be the main antagonist in the third film in 20-whenever-it-gets-made. The many bad things in this film outweighed the few good bits.
__label__1 I just sat through the whole entire film and it reminded me of star wars phantom menace but that film was good compared to this and btw i hated phantom menace I did write a full long page on this then i thought why should i even bothered because that is how i felt through this film. they really didn't put any effort in the film but thought yea explosions explosions explosions yes its visually stunning and the cast are awesome but the STORY lacked sooooo much and to make it even more Worse they decided to basically rip of a scene from the wrath of Khan where Spock dies. J.J. Abrams that is just a NO NO.if you like star trek and enjoyed the first reboot seriously avoid this one. J.J. Abrams let Kirk go down with the ship now or do this film properly
__label__1 I've been a Trekker since 1970. I've written fan fiction. I know TOS, TNG, DS9, VOY, ENT, and the animated well. I know the movies well... On their own, Abrams addition to this Icon look OK on the surface but, fall apart under close scrutiny. I feel that we can digress from canon, to a degree. The animated series digressed as well as Star Trek 5, The Final Frontier (which was loaded with dumb errors). But, Abrams is giving me a headache. By his admission, he has never watched any of the series. Well... It shows! It honestly shows. Rumor has it Abrams is going over to produce Star Wars... Best of luck to you! Please, don't mess with Star Trek anymore. To quote Dr. Smith from Lost In Space, "Oh the pain, the pain!"
__label__1 The new STID is a big disappointment to ST fans: no ST, no new exciting unexplored worlds, no new exciting aliens, flat ST characters, and an infantile script. In fact, most of the "action" is in office buildings and shopping malls on earth.It is a non-stop mindless mayhem and violence characteristic of today's Hollywood garbage, with nothing of the nobility and uplifting spirit of ST and its characters, the feeling of a ST "family", or the exciting, open minded culture or Rodenberry's inspiring vision of the future.Instead, we have 2 hours of gratuitous killing, killing, and more killing, with lots of special effects substituting for plot or acting. I feel sorry for the talented ST actors who are debased in this cheap, worthless imitation of ST; while Mr. Abrams might make lots of money with it catering to the masses lowest common denominator, to the ST aficionados, INMHO it is an abomination.Don't waste your time on it.
__label__1 An incredibly noisy mess of a film filled with nonsensical dialog, modern music that makes no sense in the setting and acting like out of cartoons. This director is all flash over substance, seems like he directed it on 10 hits of acid. Nothing original, nothing new about it. This is a film for simpletons and the weak minded.Dull beyond belief. Headache inducing. You will want to shoot yourself in the head after twenty minutes. I can't imagine anyone who actually liked this and have to give it a one star to counteract the 10 star reviews by people who most certainly don't know what good movies are about.Simply ruined Gatsby, the book was never like this, but anyone under 30 will think it's cool. Rap music? Really?
__label__1 Words cannot even explain how horrible this movie was. It was so hard to follow! The quotes were changed and the storyline was also changed. I have read and studied the book so this did not satisfy my hunger for The Great Gatsby. Needless to say I think it's pure filth and the only people who will love it will be people who have no idea who F.Scott Fitzgerald is or have not read the book. The book revolved around the 1920s and the bootleg era, I'm pretty sure this was also the JAZZ era not Jay-Z or Beyonce! The music was horrible and processed! Words cannot explain how horrible it was. I think the director should pay for my treatment! Director was to focused on 3D that there was a cut everywhere. Why would anyone ruin the best Novel of all time? Why?
__label__1 The movie starts with a guy who makes many expensive parties in his mansion, to get the presence of the girl he has always been in love with. 1.- It never explains why he can't just go to her, which the book does. This makes an awful ridiculousness of "Why didn't he just go to her?" for years. 2.- After he finally meets her, the entire plot for ENTIRE 30 MINUTES is about her not being able to make up her mind about Gatsby or her husband. 3.- The "climax" of the story is when Daisy's husband discovers he used to be poor. He breaks out in rage, and Daisy gets scared. That's it. Most of the story wouldn't mean much without the visuals, and most of the reviews were obviously bought. The only thing that makes the movie bearable was Leonardo Di Caprio's performance. The characters' entire importance and ego based on materialism and money are justified not with interesting deep stories, but with plain image and the love Gatsby felt to "give her everything", implying a love story strongly based on materialism.
__label__1 How this horrid mess has such a high rating is beyond me. Cinematography: 7 Script: 3 Soundtrack: -23 Adaptation from book: I can't count that low.The thing that makes me want to vomit the most is how this movie tries to take an older culture and 'spice it up' by adding modern things. It fails miserably. If you have seen "The matrix" trilogy, imagine the big party/rave scene after Morpheus' speech being filled with banjos playing Mozart. This movie is that style of brain violation.Anyone who has read a book once or thrice prior to it being turned into a movie will understand that you can't capture everything from the text in the time allowed for most films. This is different, it's an abomination. Not only were many key elements left out of the story, it's like it was produced by teenagers who work for Disney and have seen no other sort of film and have probably never read a book. Honestly, the price of buying or borrowing the book is far less than the cost of theater tickets or a DVD. Even if you're into downloading pirated movies, this one isn't worth the bandwidth. Anyone who rates this above a 3 clearly lacks the intellect and attention span to have even made it through the Cliff's notes for this, much less the book. This is truly horrible.
__label__1 After reading it my first year in college and being completely mesmerized, I wasn't completely thrilled with the 1974 version (critics agreed). Mia Farrow's performance was a bit over the top, but the movie, as a whole, captured the magic, sadness and despair of the book. (Karen Black & Sam Waterston were the standout performances.) But this? I could barely watch it all in one sitting, it was that bad. Poorly acted. Poorly representative of the book, and rap and modern music? It is just pure, disrespectful garbage. DiCaprio's performance was a joke and totally unbelievable. He obviously never read the book, or he was completely unable to glean any of the emotion or meaning of his character from it. I actually laughed hysterically at how poor his performance was at times. The only saving grace of this movie (or the reason for the single star) was Carey Mulligan's performance. While I don't think she portrayed Daisy correctly in any way (not fragile enough), she is always a joy to watch. And to IMDB, if you are worried about "spoilers" with regard to The Great Gatsby? I realize it's on every title, but if you don't know the story by now, that's a very sad testament to this great piece of literature. It certainly was greatly disrespected by this director and TPTB who made this travesty. Fitzgerald is spinning in his grave.
__label__1 by far the worst movie of the year. an even worse movie than 'This is the End,' which is saying something. i have no idea what DiCaprio was thinking signing up for this turd, but he mailed in his performance, as did Maguire, and who can really blame them?the movie turns Carraway and Gatsby into characters that might as well have come from some 'MTV Live' sketch show. even Tom is sympathetic in this farce, as the one early scene in the book that establishes his character is muted down in this travesty.no thanks to the director for taking an American classic and reducing it to a sanitized, make-believe Disney world. stick to ruining Shakespeare, old sport.
__label__1 Rap music in a 1920s film? Really?FAIL!!Was the music of the era not good enough for the film makers that they had to drown the film in generic modern crap music?Why do directors think that everything needs to be current to be successful?Why do we need super fast editing as if we all have ADHD?Why do we need shaky cameras in every other scene?Yes, the movie has nice art direction, sets and costumes, but everything was lost the minute modern music started playing. Takes any immersion of the period right out of you.I stopped watching this travesty after the first 30 minutes.Simply horrible.
__label__1 Coco Chanel said "Once you've dressed, and before you leave the house, look in the mirror and take at least one thing off." This is what Baz should have done. In The Great Gatsby's case, a lot more than one thing should have been taken off or out of this film. It is Over The Top; Bad. Too much fake CGI.In a major cinema complex in Sydney in Cinema 1 (largest theatre in the complex) on the second night of opening it was bearly one quarter full and even then a whole row of 10 patrons walked out after that silly scene in the underground jazz club.It is a cacophony of nothingness. Too much fluff and tinsel. No sympathy for any character could be felt.P.S. And the blinking green light... Yes, we can see it. Yes, we know what it means. Yes, we are not dumb!!
__label__1 I had high expectations of this movie, with Leonardo Dicaprio playing Gatsby and the overall cast quite fitting for their roles.After the first 5 minutes, however, i was left completely disappointed. Partying scenes were glamorous, yes, but the overall effect looked unauthentic. All right, I could put up with that, "for Dicaprio"-I told myself, but as soon as the music played, i knew that this was going to be one of the movies which i would fast-forward in 15 minutes or so.HIp Hop, in a movie set in 1922, Beyonce, in a movie set in 1922.Music blaring into my ears and preventing me from concentrating on the movie.It was so bad, I had to register an account on IMDb, clicked on the review link for about 20 times because it kept asking me to confirm my email and finally writing down these words.Really, it's best you don't watch it at all.
__label__1 This movie is DOA, a victim of the colossal misjudgment of whoever thought The Great Gatsby would be a suitable vehicle for 3-D special effects and tried to turn it into a showcase for them. At best they add nothing to this subtle and complex classic and at worst they distract the viewer from the novelist's intent, masking every other theme of the novel behind a garish attempt to overwhelm the viewer with with a stylized vision of the roaring twenties. The actors struggling to compete with this distraction and bring Fitzgerald's characters and themes to life are at a serious disadvantage before they even appear, and Leonardo DiCaprio simply isn't up to the task. His seems to be alternately trying to channel Robert Redford and Marlon Brando, the former being an improvement and the later a particularly inappropriate source of confusion about the character. Gatsby is supposed to be an enigma, but this is ridiculous. And when those resources seem unable to sustain him, he drifts off into something more reminiscent of Orson Wells, an impersonation that is way out beyond his ability, though in harmony with his bloated and dissipated appearance. The silly device of scattering bits of text into the snow or rain and then assembling them to float in front in front of the screen is no competition for Sam Waters sensitive reading of the same texts. The interjection of a psychoanalytical frame story to explicate Nick's character would be totally unnecessary if a more suitable and capable actor than Tobey Maguire had been cast. I went home and watched the 1974 version, which I had underestimated. In contrast Sam Waters, Robert Redford and Karen Black were nothing less than brilliant. Poor Fitzgerald. What a disservice. But the novel is pretty much indestructible and will live to fight another day, even if it lost this battle.
__label__1 Genuinely awful movie. Watching Toby Macguire act is like watching a mannequin that's realized its sentient but still chooses to do nothing about it. The cinematography feels like the work of an overzealous child. HEY LOOKS LETS GO ACROSS THE RIVER... WHOOOSH... HEY LETS GO BACK ACROSS THE RIVER... WHOOOSH... LETS GO INTO TOWN... WHOOOSH... LETS GO BACK HOME... ZOOOOM. I lost IQ points for sitting through that. I'm secretly hoping that the unobtainable green light on the dock represents the green light for all other future movies this director wants to direct.The films only saving grace is that it ends.
__label__1 If I thought the overlong, frightfully dull "Avatar" contained and rehashed every Hollywood cliché ever used, albeit in blue, "Prince of Persia: Sands of Time" runs the gamut of every mindless Hollywood action-feature effect, computerized or not, and even as an admittedly escapism event, it falls short of any intended mark. It is obvious that there is little new under the Hollywood sun. Frankly, 1942's "Arabian Nights" did this plot line much better and Shemp Howard, of Three Stooges fame, surpassed Alfred Molina's deadly dull and ineffective attempt at humor. Jake Gyllenhaal, in spite of much daring-do stunts and macho posturing, is still not the virile stud hero that his handlers are trying to turn him into, and Arterton's clichéd bitchy dialog becomes tedious after 10 minutes. It's a shallow waste of time from beginning to end and how Ben Kingsley could keep a straight face throughout this loud, noisy romp is a testament to his enormous experience in front of a camera.
__label__1 I went into the theater expecting to see a cartoon for adults and that is exactly what I paid for.Guillermo Del Toro is an extremely talented director, producer and above all an extraordinary artist. Pan's Labyrinth gave justice to his talents and "The Strain trilogy" exemplifies his talents as a creator and innovator of interesting mind-grabbing stories/plots.However, Pacific Rim was a horrible movie not only because it lacked substance (a clear plot, climax, resolution), but because it proved to audiences everywhere that Hollywood no longer requires decent actors and plot-lines to create a blockbuster movie.The only intricacies and attention to detail that could be found in this movie was in the CG design of the so called Jaegers (Robots). Yet, the movie served to ignore the basic human sense of sight when most of the movie took place in a dark setting. It was a metaphor of how the movie itself was a black hole of cash and talent with all the darkness sucking and robbing people of their investments and experiences.An episode of Beast Wars that I watched as a young child had more substance and gave more satisfaction to its audience than this movie. Pacific Rim is a destruction to the art of cinematography in that its business model lies in providing the awe-factor, shocking the audience into believing the movie is great with bling. Expensive jewelry doesn't make a woman more beautiful, it just proves that she has the money to afford it, and that is exactly what Pacific Rim accomplished.The movie is just a failure of epic proportions and the fact that it rates a 7.9 on IMDb just proves that we, the collective audience, have just stopped caring. Movies no longer provide us with mind-blowing catharsis, they are now just a means of blowing off steam.
__label__1 This is the worst movie I have seen in a long time. Sure it has crazy creatures battling it out in the oceans which is just fine with me but so many elements just let the movie down. It could have been so much more.Why did the drivers of the Jaegers need to actually be in the Jaeger at all? and why are the controls linked to massive mechanical devices, surely this would be electronic. And the head is fired onto the Jaeger via some massively complicated lift type procedure? Yet they can clearly just get out the head when needed?It took 8 days of tanks and planes to take down a Kaiji but one shot into the eye from an auzi clearly causes it some distress? ONE SHOT? The oceans are about 4 stories deep, which seems to change or the size of the Jaegers adjusts during the movie.What's with every bit of steel needing to be rusty except for Ron Perlman's shoes? and massive bulkhead doors being used for the living compartments.The acting, sooooo bad.Let's send the helicopters to go and pick-up the two survivors, but lets send 20 helicopters, that makes much more sense, especially since this is a military program that has been shut down so ready access to dozens of helicopters becomes easier.They can build Jaegers with some sort of amazing sword device that comes out of nowhere but forget to tell the drivers? Charlie and the professor, just random cast choices there!It's set in the future, some things are hi-tech others are retro rusty junk, it doesn't make any sense.There's just so much more. How this movie gets a 7.8 is beyond me. Don't waste you life and avoid at all costs.
__label__1 If you are not in a coma or if you are over the age of 8 don't go see this movie. It is terrible. On the other hand, if you are under the age of 8 I think you will like it! In short, this is a movie for kids, not for adults.So what is wrong with it? Everything.1. Acting is terrible.Mostly poor acting. The relationships in the movie are hard to relate to. The characters are impossible to relate to. Actually, the acting of the two scientists is so bad it makes the others seem not so bad after all. 2. Most details of the plot are terrible.Giant monsters come through the ocean floor from another dimension and kill millions of people. That seems like something that could be a fun science fiction action movie. But, how did they get there? How do they survive the pressure and heat? How do their skeletons handle the enormous weight of their bodies when they come out of the water? Well, apparently they did and they do all of that. Let's just accept it.How do the smartest men on earth decide to defend against these monsters? By building giant robots called Jaegers that punch them. However, the monsters have skin and horns that are tougher than steel so nothing much happens when they are punched. So when you build your robot you make sure it's steel has the appropriate strength, right? Wrong. Let's make them really fragile so the hull can easily be breached. Yes!!It turns out (somewhere in the later parts of the movie) that the monsters can be cut in half with knives and killed with fire. Wouldn't it then be a good idea to kill something like this with something that actually works, like an appropriately sized bomb instead? No, let's punch them with these fragile robots. Yes!!During the debriefing after a fight, let's use the knowledge we have gained during the fight to prepare for the next fight. Wrong! Let's not learn anything. Yes!!When the monsters are attacked by airplanes and helicopters they fly so close that the monsters can punch them. Who, with just the tiniest amount of survival instinct, would fly a plane like that?Most of the fighting takes place in the ocean. Since the hulls of the robots are so easily breached let's protect the pilots with at least some sort of oxygen mask! Wrong! Let's not do that!! Let them instead drown. Yes!!Some fighting takes place under water where vision is extremely poor. So let's equip the robots with state of the art systems to detect monsters, so pilots aren't surprised by monsters sneaking up on them. Wrong! Let them use their own eyes. The result is they don't see much and are constantly surprised by attacks they were unaware of. Yes!!Since fighting can be tiring for the pilots, shouldn't we try to make the way they control the robots as effortless as possible? Wrong! Let's put them in heavy suits of metal and attach them to giant mechanical constructions. Yes!!Why are the pilots inside the robots to begin with? Because wireless data transmission doesn't work in the future, right? Well it turns out it does work. But let's try and make a system where if the robot is destroyed the pilots are killed. Yes!!Robots are controlled partially with the mind by something called "drifting". One person using all of his brain for drifting would put too much strain on him. This is just the way the robot "drifting" system works. Let's not rebuild that system. Let's instead rebuild the entire robot so that we need two pilots in each. Yes!!To pilot a robot it seems you need to use "drifting". However, nowhere in the movie do you see any pilot controlling anything through the mind. But let's keep it because it is cool. Yes!!Since we are equipping the robots with a few weapons shouldn't we try to make the launch mechanism fast? Wrong! Let's make sure there is enough time for the monsters to rip the weapons from the robot before it fires. Yes!!Let's lift these 2000 tonne robots with 8 helicopters. Because 5 tonnes of lifting force x 8 helicopters = 2000 tonnes of lifting force and that will work, right? Yes!!When fighting in a city let's walk over a few hundred cars and through a few buildings because that is a really funny thing to do and hopefully there are no people there anyway. Yes!!Sometimes when they need to talk or reflect on life or whatever the monsters will wait for them to finish before they attack again. On the other hand, how else could the actors finish what they have to say? Yes!!In the very beginning of the movie, the leaders of the world have realized how ineffective the robots are. So they instead decide to build walls to protect cities from the monsters. Because monsters can't climb, right? And people only live in cities, right? The construction is based on extensive analysis of the monsters bone and muscle structure to make sure the walls are strong enough, right? Wrong!CGI effects in this movie are realistic and cool. The visual effects are extremely well done. However, since the plot and the story and some of the acting is so poor it really makes you wonder. If there are all these talented people doing CGI effects, why were there no other talented people involved in making this movie?To summarize. Mankind is portrayed as extremely stupid. Good CGI effects. Poor directing. Poor acting. Poor story-line. Avoid.
__label__1 First I will say this. Guillermo Del Toro is one of my top 5 movie directors. I own Blade 2, Hellboy 1 and 2, Pans Labyrinth, The orphanage and so on. I was really looking forward to this movie for over a year and was wishing it would deliver but all it did was fail. EPICALLY. The score I gave were for visuals. Whoever says this movie is great they are the reason movies keep getting made. I left the movie theater angry. This has to be the worst movie written and edited of all time. How would anyone release this $200 million dollar cluster fudge.Writing is the key to success. The plot of the movie is that a crack opens that port's monsters from another dimension to our world. So its one crack. So answer this why didn't they try to nuke the thing from the beginning to see if it fails before creating the jaegars and finding out at the end that nuking it will fail. Then after creating the Jaegars which were like 30 of them. Why not have them on standby near the stupid crack. The reason being its proved that only one appears at a time. They track them as they appear. Correct. Imagine how much repair they will save if all 30 ganged this one Kaiju as he was entering our world. Why the hell would you split up the Jaegars around the world if its only one crack. Even if they decide to send 10 kaijus they will still fail. But now they decide to do this strategy when only 4 Jaegers are left.Next when driving the Jaegers why is there a spinning blade grinder under these guys? What happens if the accidentally fall in? Wait that actually almost happened. Bad design don't you think. Next we have the guy mind meld with a kaiju brain. Now why would they do this. Oh because once the 2 kaijus defeat the 3 Jaegars in less than a minute of movie time they need a diversion for one of the kaijus to leave. Why didn't both Kaijus leave after the scientist guy? So that Dipsey Stranger can intervene and take them out separately. Then something stupid happens. The Gorilla kaiju that's left over doesn't destroy the last non functioning Jaegar. He just walks around it and punches it in the head. Then these 2 guys get out and blind him with a flare. Seriously.Now we get to the kaijus defeat. Why is the Kaiju pregnant? Its proved that they are all clones. WHY? Thats easy to fix the plot hole in the scientist guy to mind meld with the baby kaiju who has no recollection of whats going on in the other dimension. WTF. Really? The thing is in an egg and it has memories. Its like saying that if a woman is pregnant and the baby is delivered I can mind meld with it and it can show me where he came from heaven or HELL. "Because this is what this movie is".Finally the part that I screamed at in the Theater. If you read this you know it was me. What was the purpose of having a stick fight training scene if the damn robots cannot use weapons? I didn't see them us any hand-held weapons in which this would benefit them. Oh wait the sword at the end against the flying Kaiju. This is where I screamed, "ARE YOU KIDDING ME". They had this weapon the whole time and never used it. WHY? Oh that's right. If they used it in the beginning the brother wouldn't die and the other brother would not meet the Japanese girl in which they wind up have a interracial love interest. THAT DOESN'T WORK. USE THE SWORD. Then later on create kaijus that are smarter in disabling this technique.OK forget the sword. how about this. How many times did the jaegers had these kaijus by the neck and never once bothered to crush it with the robotic power? I lost count. As for the flying sucker hell my hands were free. Why not crush its neck with my bare robotic hands.Then the movie finally ends just like independence day with the stupid alien looking at the Jaeger exploding this movie.
__label__1 I don't know what other movie people saw, but I for one I'm not impressed by some special effects anymore . Got to see this movie with some friends and based on the reviews I saw on this website we thought it would be fun .The movie started OKs first 20 min they build it up nice , then could have skipped the next hour, utterly pointless , the story predictable, full of cliché lines and just a waste of time, and I don't know what was wrong with the girl playing the "love interest" but when she was attempting to cry or give some longing look i started laughing and when they tried to make a funny scene you could see it miles away and i wanted to cry how awful the script was. And Charlie, I like him in SoA but he didn't have to go to that much trouble to play Jax in this movie as well .Well the action scenes we're OK I suppose if your into big things.. and even those had their "genius" moments like the sword and its "analogical" ...moment , granted If the intention was to ridicule and make me laugh at the absurdity of its logic then it did its job.By the time this movie was nearing the end , I was at least hoping the director of the movie could have the decency to just kill them off, instead i got to see Jax fondling that annoying 14 year old (yea ... i know the actress is like 30+ but that doesn't change the fact that in the movie she looks and acts like 14-15).In conclusion if this what entertains people in this day , then by all means, let the monsters loose , at least we get a good show ...
__label__1 He has now made two blockbuster movies which make no sense no matter how many ways you try to put them together, and people don't seem to care. The critics have brutally trashed both this movie and "The Fallen" movie, yet audiences love both films although they seem to have been put together by a group of 2nd graders who playing out randomly strung together old cartoon episodes with their toys. I am an old school fan who liked the first two movies, but "Dark of the Moon" makes "Fallen" look like Shakespeare. It's incredible how many people are saying that this movie is better than "Fallen". With all its faults, at least "Fallen" had humor, some incredible action sequences and effects, and an interesting, if incomplete, script. This movie has none of these things. This is a very long and boring movie that wastes the talents of good actors. The attempts at humor are painful to watch. The three Transformers movies cannot be connected now no matter how hard you try. To make another sequel would be ludicrous, but seeing how much money this drivel is making already, I bet they have already taken the five minutes needed to write the next one. The original writers were smart to bail out of this train wreck after Bay made them write "Fallen" in a couple of days and went on to butcher the little that they had time to write. This time there was no writers' strike, so I expected better--like explanations and connections across all three films. You'll get none of that here, just more incomprehensible nonsense that ignores the other films. You don't know what's going on half the time, and the final battle has no pacing, motivation, or orientation--it just drags on and on and on---like that 20 minute desert sequence in "The Fallen" multiplied by 10. What happened to the Cube's knowledge in Sam's brain? Why was Sentinel Prime's ship shot down by the people that were working with him? How was Megatron going to rendezvous with him if they ended up finding earth in different time periods? Why did Megatron go after the cube if the original plan seemed to be to enslave earth and transport Cybertron there using the space bridge? How did Sentinel's ship crash on earth's moon if it was shot down over Cybertron? Why didn't Megatron go after the Space Bridge parts when he awoke in the first movie? Why didn't he after he awoke in the second movie? Why didn't they use the shard in the second movie to activate Sentinel on the moon instead of Megatron? How did Sentinel, the Cube, and the Sun Harvester all end up on earth? Why are the Transformers not even bothering to project human images in their car modes anymore? Why does Prime carry The Matrix of Leadership (a key to activate the Sun Harvester) inside of him and use it to energize Autobots which it is not meant to do? When, why, and how did an entire army of generic Decepticons hide inside of the moon? Why do the Transformers transform? These are just a few of about a hundred questions that this movie brings up. I suspect that not even Michael Bay knows the answers, and he doesn't care. it's insulting.There are some good ideas, but it's all put together very badly, and not much is explained. Watching this movie gave me the feeling that Bay and the actors are here to wrap this up and are not interested in this material. The studios will be pressuring him to make #4, so he can get some 3rd graders together to write a script again---yet another group of Autobots has been buried in a volcano for 4 million years! They can transform to dinosaurs-- no explanation is necessary. Out of all of the planets in the infinite universe, their ship crashed on earth because...well because the script says so. They were looking for the cube, no-- the Harvester, no-- the space bridge, no wait...they were looking for the ancestor of Michael Bay. If Bay is never born, these movies would never exist and we can reboot.
__label__1 Dear Mr Bay After recently viewing your latest movie I couldn't help but feel you need a few tips on: a) General movie making and plot writing b) Making a Transformers movie Although I know nothing of these I feel I could still do a much, much better job than you did with your latest movie. So here goes.To begin with, when writing a plot it is often a very good idea to stick with a few simple ideas, unless you're making Inception but please don't try this, as I'm already cringing at thought. As you have probably found, or will soon find, people don't like it when you try to add little pieces together to make one big whole, this just doesn't work out to be a good story, or a very well thought out story. Hence the gaping plot holes in your latest story. For example, if the Decepticons had been removing pillars from the Dark Side of the Moon years and years ago what was the point of the first two movies? With a movie it is also a good idea to not try build suspense at every turn, have massive pivotal moments that last 5 seconds and insignificant pointless moments that last 15 minutes. And just because you found a girl that you thought could replace Megan Fox doesn't mean that she needs to have long freeze frame shots, heroic moments or even to be in the movie. And not every character has to be a hero. Optimus Prime definitely, Bumble Bee understandable, Sam Witwicky...maybe in a human kind of way. But not every character with a small speaking part needs to be a hero and change the course of history, if that was the case then everyone would just be normal and there wouldn't ever be heroes right? Also when casting characters don't pick every minor comedic actor that auditions, because similar to the piecemeal nature of your story line, lots of minor comedic actors don't make for a funny movie. And when I went to see the Transformers 3 movie I didn't say "Hey, that'll be hilarious" I said "Awesome, I can't wait for epic fight scenes and intense visual and audial effects that make me excited for days after" Which leads me to my next 2 major problems.I understand that you just make movies but you'd think that you'd understand the two things that made the first Transformers and saved the second. Epic Autobot/Decepticon fight scenes and amazing transforming sounds. Both of which your movie lacked or pretty much ignored. The only reasons I said I'd return to a Transformers movie after the failure of the second one but for some reason you thought it's be fine without these things and that you could fill the movie with ridiculous amounts of human characters, explosions, and epic moments.And to top it all off you make 2 little pet transformers, that annoyed the audience throughout the movie, have one of the most pivotal moments in the victory of the Autobots! And then the new Transformers girl, who should stick to modeling by the way, convinces Megatron, the absolute evil and most powerful Decepticon, to kill Sentinel Prime! Why the heck wouldn't he just squash her? This would probably have saved the movie in my opinion but sadly we can add this to the long line of missed opportunities in your movie.But the worse thing that you could have possibly done...is killed off Ironhide in the way that he was killed. You're talking about the weapons and combat expert of the Autobots, the heavy unit, second only to Optimus and you kill him off like he was one of your several other dispensable characters. How do you sleep at night? I just find it hard to believe that after the last Transformers movie you actually managed to make a worse movie. I mean here was your chance at redemption, something simple, maximum transformer fighting, maximum transforming sounds! It looks so good in my head! But then I think about what you did...and it all crumbles and my heart dies just a little more.So my advice to you is maybe you should really try and understand what the Transformers is all about, it doesn't have to be complicated, you don't have to have 5000 transformers, or characters for that matter. Keep it simple stupid. Fewer characters, fewer epic moments, more transforming, more transformer fighting, Optimus blitzing it out with any Decepticons who cross his path, awesome Bumble Bee/Iron Hide combo kills, Sam calls his girlfriend to say whats up but nothing more from her because she can't act very well, Ironhide dies a noble death if needs be (although questionable), no comedy, and just one epic world saving moment not 50.And my advice for anyone going to see the movie...don't.Make up your own ideal Transformers 3 story line and watch Transformers 1 again.I wish I had.So thank you Mr Bay, for ruining something I held so dear.Yours totally and utterly sincerely Jamie Stronge.
__label__1 What an Awful display of commercialized cinema, playing to the tunes of all the wrong stereotypes. A horrible waste of time, effort and money, specially since a lot of effort must have gone into the graphics only to produce this distasteful parody of sorts. This is what you get when you make a movie without passion or substance. Anyway, I intended to ask this question since the first part. What is the point of having a chick running around in these types of movies? Really, is it necessary to have some chick in skimpy clothes romancing around with metal crashing on metal in the background ? Unless off-course you wanted to woo schoolgirls in to watch the movie. My serious advise is, if you have to finish with watching the 3rd installment, rent it. That way you can fast forward through all those disgusting chick flick scenes and watch what you paid for.
__label__1 There was a trailer beforehand of Kung Fu Panda somethingorother. The film then started with the Paramount mountain, formed from a gopher mound, and an unrealistic CG gopher poking it's head out of the mound. I actually didn't realise this was the film, and still thought I was watching a Disney trailer. This was my first sign that the film was going to be a filing cabinet full of soiled underwear.This complete cowpat of a film is truly a sign of the shifting zeitgeist of what is expected from cinema. At least from Lucas et al.There was so much wrong with this film, I don't even know where to start. Every scene was a howler. Story has now been replaced by technical ability with CGI. Character development is now abandoned in favour of a panicked attention-grabbing frenzy of disconnected scenes. Comedy comes from prat-falling CG chipmunks, rather than wit or a character's reaction to a situation (remember the German bad guy and Indy's reaction to the Arab on the windshield of the truck in 'Raiders'? Hilarious!). The bloated chase scene was incomprehensibly ludicrous. Fantastical CGI renderings paved the way for unrealistic feats of human acrobatics that would not have been out of place in the Matrix Reloaded car chase.Think of the scenes in Raiders where people are actually talking to each other for extended periods: Belloq and Indy in the Marrakesh bar; Indy and Sallah looking at the headpiece in the old man's house; Indy and Marcus talking about the ark with the CIA guys in his University. These are all great scenes. Classic scenes. They divide the action and drama nicely. They set the stage and peg the narrative so you know - without being patronised - what is going on. I didn't have a clue what was happening in Crystal Skull, and just as I was getting my bearings - an alien spaceship took off!!! I whispered to the guy next to me 'Please... make it stop.'.I really thought that Lucas would have learned a very sore lesson from the reaction to the re-hashed Star Wars movies. We don't want Midichlorians. We don't want CGI. We don't want prat-falling comedy robots and gophers. We want soul, scene, story, character, mis en scene, tension, performance, dialogue, good casting, solid character relationships.You will not get this from 'Crystal'.Which scene scared you more: Marion hanging 15 meters off the ground from the statue of Anubis in Raiders, or Marion driving (giggling) off a cliff into a tree (with no guarantee that she wasn't going snap the branches or miss the tree altogether) only to be let down gently into the water by the flexing tree, still giggling?This film has stretched tension and drama into the ludicrous and that's exactly what it ends up being. Ludicrous.When you come out of the cinema screen, turn around and look at the expressions of the people walking out behind you. I did, and it was a collective 'Has someone just farted?'High Points: Denholm Elliot's breathtaking performance.Low Points: Everything else.
__label__1 I don't think I will be giving away any of the plot because there actually is no plot.I'll start off by saying that the previous three Indiana Jones movies are my favorite movies of all time. When I heard about the fourth one I was excited but thought they should have left it alone because the third one ended the trilogy so perfectly. However, I went to this movie with enthusiam and I really really wanted to like it. Afterwards I figured out that was impossible.I thought the movie would be cheapened by Shia's character or the fact that Indy's character would be about 20 years older. Those were actually some of the very few things that were actually good about this movie. Shia gave a good performance and I actually liked his character. They also did a good job of transitioning to an older Indiana.But the movie just got ridiculous. It started alright as he is escaping the Russians which had invaded a warehouse in Area 51. However, once he escaped they threw in a completely pointless scene. Which, and wait til you hear this one, is that Indiana stumbles upon a mock town set up in Nevada to judge the effects of an Atomic Bomb at, of course, the time of the test. So in order to escape, he jumps into a refrigerator, which they point out is lead lined (will that really help), right before the explosion hits. He is then tossed a few miles in this, outside of the blast area. The door stays closed, he isn't injured while being thrown in this thing at all and feels no ill effects of radiation... YUP.The middle was alright, with some cool chase scenes, decent dialogue, and a cool jungle chase scene with vehicle to vehicle fighting. Indiana did very little of the fighting, and none of it if you exclude hand to hand combat. One of the few bright spots was Shia doing the fighting instead of Indiana.But everything else was terrible. There was an incredibly boring part where they find the skull. Let me summarize that. They find the ruins it is hidden in. They walk through the ruins. They find the skull. And it only got worse from there.After the cool chase scene in the Jungle they escape gigantic ants by a really creepy guy holding the skull in front of them. Then they drive the car (which is also a boat... yeah, I know) off a cliff, but their landing (which is of course in a river) is cushioned by a huge tree that they hit and bends them down to place them gently in the water (Seriously). They then fall off 3 massive water falls, the 5 characters, in this car/boat (that has a jagged glass windshield at this point), and land in the car safely the first two times, and then just each in the water safely after the third one (Seriously, Im gonna say that a lot).Oh! Then they find the entrance to the temple / city thing they are looking for. I couldn't have imagined anything less cool. After simply walking through this they get out the other side to find the city but realize they are being chased by some native people (which aren't explained at all). And how do they survive this, the creepy guy points the skull at them, gee they didn't do this before. Then they get to the middle of the city and break off some things to drain the middle structure of the sand that is in it, then have to quickly run down a circular stair cast that is going away as they run (Which is why Disney should be suing since this was stolen from National Treasure).OK, at this point you're thinking "well this hasn't been that good, but they've reached the temple, the movie can be saved because here comes the cool part! Here comes the action and the interesting plot that brings it all together." That couldn't be more incorrect.Here's how I will summarize that part to give it all the credit it deserves. Indiana (and group) walk, yes I said walk (nothing else), through the temple. Creepy guy who doesn't talk carries skull and points it at a door (gee they didn't do the pointing the skull thing before). Indiana holds it up to the door, it opens. Yup, there's your big ACTION / ADVENTURE.AND THEN... They find a room of 13 ALIENS, made completely OUT OF CRYSTAL, but aren't alive. The Russians walk, take the skull and the woman places it on the NECK OF THE LAST ALIEN. The room then STARTS SPINNING UNCONTROLLABLE. Indiana and his group dive out. The aliens then JOIN TO CREATE ONE LIVE ALIEN and use their mind powers to EVAPORATE THE Russian WOMAN. Then Indiana (and group) run out of the temple. No, no real action unless you consider him begging his friend that has betrayed him twice to come with and not to waste time taking treasure action (he dies, just like the mummy, lawsuit?). After they get out by sitting in a WATER CANNON THAT BLASTS THEM OUT they witness the city TURN INTO A FLYING SAUCER THAT ZIPS AWAY! Yup! It really is that ridiculous. They then play some incredibly lame thing about how the gift was knowledge in writing that is on the same level as Anakin's reasoning for going to the dark side in Star Wars Ep 3. After that Indiana marries, yes marries, Marion (girl from the first one) because Shia's character is really their kid. And then they do another lame transition of how he is going to be the next Indiana Jones by Indy's hat being blown almost into his hands by the wind right before Harrison Ford snatches it and walks out.
__label__1 I love the Indy Trilogy, watched it a dozen times and couldn't wait for this one. I tried not to be spoiled, didn't read the reviews or watched the trailers, so that I would be able to form my own opinion on this movie. I even tried not to expect too much. The only expectation I had, was that it had to be less disappointing than Episode 1. But my disappointment concerning movies hit a new low. I really really tried to like it, but they made it impossible to. I thought setting the new movie into the 50s was actually a good idea. I could relate to Nevada, Area 51, even the Roswell aliens. I could even overlook Indy surviving a nuclear blast in a fridge - ridiculous as it was.But why was it not possible to let Indy search for a Crystal Skull, that may or may not be of alien nature, being chased by the Russians, only to find it at the end of the movie and the Skull being destroyed or locked away in Area 51? That would have been a plot in the sense of the first movies. But my wildest imaginations couldn't prepare me for Aliens and flying saucers in a Indy movie. That's as if God had appeared and congratulated Indy for finding his lost Ark at the end of Raiders.But it wasn't only the ridiculous plot. I remember reading an Interview where Spielberg and Lucas stated they tried to work with stunt teams and would only use CGI if there wasn't any other way. But that doesn't justify computer animated gophers, that you expect to start talking any minute or Ted-look-alike monkeys. Or a car chase that would have made the Wachowski brothers proud. The set of the Maya City with the fading stairs seemed like the leftovers of "National Treasure: Book of Secrets" and the ants like a cheap rip off from "The Mummy".Humour was created through nostalgic in-jokes but it lacked the original wit that excelled the first three parts. Unbearable over-the-top CGI action sequences were extended to a length that there wasn't any time left to pay tribute to the characters, their relationships or even dialog lasting longer than three sentences.And did I really need to know that Indy is actually the father of Tarzan? That he is not only a Doctor/Professor and an adventurer but a Colonel, an agent and a Double-Agent as well? That Marian has grown so tough that she borders on insanity with her hysterical laughter whenever danger is ahead?It's just a loud CGI-action movie without the heart and soul from the former Indy movies. Even a sense of adventure is missing.But at least Indy seems to have retired. Let’s just hope that Lucas and Spielberg won’t reunite again for Henry Jones Junior III – the new Trilogy. Because after Indy 4 I do believe that they can hit new lows with every new movie they come up with.
__label__1 I have always been a big fan of the Indy movies and I am a SciFi nut. I also read Ebert's reviews to understand his criticism and analysis. So that sets the stage.This movie is, unfortunately, dreck, ca-ca, poo, crud, call it what you will. It is an insult to the intelligence of each and every movie-goer. And for a Lucas-Spielberg movie to be so is quite beyond belief.Let me highlight the lows and then I will get into some specifics.The dialog seems little more than to act as a narration to explain what happened, what is currently happening and what will happen in the near future. It does not develop the characters or the plot.The plot is crude and unconvincing. The characters move through their lines with little humor and false emotion. Although I don't expect academy awards ranking here I do expect for than "Plan 9 from Outer Space" acting. (If you've seen this you know dreck.) The chase scenes are too long and not always relevant. There is no suspense, anxiety, or real fear displayed by the actors or felt by the audience. There were so many times in the movie that Indy should have been killed by the Russians since he had done his part, but he wasn't.There is none of the excellent humor that set a foundation for the tongue-in-cheek performances in Raiders and to a lesser extent the following two sequels.The improbability factor in much of the movie is astounding and the inclusion of useless scenes in also excessive  I will give details: Climbing into a refrigerator will not protect you from being smashed and hurled hundreds of yards or more and crashing to the ground. When it crashes at 100 miles per hours you crash as though there was no refrigerator around you since, the last time I checked, there is no padding in one of these. And let's not even discuss the heat and radiation of the blast (lead will only protect so much). Ants cannot carry whole people away into their nest, nor do they possess tablespoons of goo in their bodies.Remember those house-sized rocks revolving at great speed around the spaceship as it took off? They would not just stop and drop when the "magnetic" field was gone, they would fly off and destroy all around them including all the observers who were just yards away.What the hell was the purpose of the motorcycle in the airplane? How long did that last.When Mutt was looking for Indy, he seemed not to know what he looked like. Wasn't it a tremendous coincidence that he happened to first choose the right person? And that he was on that side of the train and that the train could be stopped for him to get off (not explained was that?) After the initial contact with the FBI, they disappeared from the movie. There were more Russians than FBI on American soil after that scene.Is gunpowder magnetic? I think not. If the Cadaver in the warehouse was so magnetic that it would attract the gunpowder, why wasn't all the metal in the warehouse and being carried by the troops attracted similarly. Why was it that only those metal items the camera was focusing on where attracted. In fact, later in the movie, this magnetic field could be stopped by a cloth covering  as if! An amphibious vehicle of the kind the main characters were riding in is not inherently a floating device. Like most ships, if water gets inside or they turn over (capsize) they will sink like a stone. Clearly, there were no sailors on board this cast or crew. For all the occupants to survive not one but three falls over falls the last of which looked like Niagara Falls is so comical as to be ridiculous. (btw, I know I overused that word). Why not make them a bit smaller and give the cast some trouble with the cascades so that we are anxious for their safety. When things are so absurd, the audience must suspend disbelief so greatly that at no time is it fearful for their survival.Mutt already had the skull, why did he risk death by continuing to sword fight? What's with the attacks by the natives? These occurred twice and neither was well explained, although the fear factor with them was probably the best in the movie.At the end the scene with Mac going crazy trying to gather the gold (and then dying) was so predictable, having been played out hundreds of times in other movies. Couldn't they have done something a bit different? Could Mutt really swing with the monkeys so as to catch up with speeding vehicles? Just where did he learn this skill while looking in mirrors and combing his hair? When Indy blew into the wrong end of the blowgun, the native shouldn't have died since the wrong end pierced him. In fact the wrong end isn't sharp at all or it would be impossible to discharge.Would the army place a highly secret and very important warehouse in close proximity to a nuclear test site? Not unless they wanted to destroy everything in that warehouse, which was unlikely. And while we are at it wouldn't these highly trained Russians know that a nuclear test was being conducted? Well, I have asked more questions here than can be explained in a lifetime of Indy movies. And I haven't asked them all. All I have to add is - I want my two hours back please!!
__label__1 Another in a list of very poor Hollywood follow-up films.....For a film where the makers continually talked of doing in-camera effects so as to match the original films and preserve continuity, there sure were a lot of CG effects. In fact, the very first shot of the film includes a CG character which served to me as a warning as to how the whole film was going to go.There are so many things wring with this film Its difficult to know where to start. The story for starters is a bit weak, and surely they could have found a non extra-terrestrial theme and picked something more interesting and based on some other interesting artifact from antiquity. Ford's character having a side career as a spy was ridiculous, as was the terrible character played be Blanchett. In fact, all of the characters were simply uninteresting and a waste of time for the actors who portrayed them.The action sequences seemed a bit old-hat and it was painfully obvious at times (such as the warehouse sequence) that Ford was a little over the hill for the role as the difference between his close-ups and the stunt-mans shots whose tempo did not match. Throughout the film there were several shots that do stand out in my mind, but maybe not for good reasons. Some of these included that ridiculous sequence with the fridge, the very 'Mummy' like ant effects, the awful shot introducing Shia LaBeouf, those stupid monkeys and gophers and probably most notably the dime store looking, cling-wrap filled plastic skull which was meant to be what the whole film was about!!For some reason Hollywood does not seem to be able to produce any decent follow-up films recently, and this is no exception. I can only wonder at how much influence Lucas had over the filming and post production of this film, but it really feels like 'Phantom Menace Syndrome' with its lack of story, character development, style, excitement or any virtue worth going to see an adventure film for. It simply is not anything like the original 3 films which were great fun to watch and still are. The direction of the film feels like a first time director who does not know where the film is going and simply cannot get a grip on the material. It disappoints me greatly that this film is so woefully dull, as with its great cast and director it really was the last thing that I would have expected. There are a few nice moments between Ford and Allens characters, but these are counted in low single digit numbers. The films greatest crime is that is just not a fun film. I personally don't think of an CG driven film when I think of this franchise but this is what they gave us this time and quite frankly, I would rather go watch The Mummy for that kind of film and its certainly no piece of art either!
__label__1 Spoilers ahead.I was waiting for this film since the first time I heard It was going to be made, about four years ago. Then came the problems with the script. Spielberg likes this one, but Lucas not, etc. Then they said they had difficulties to match their agendas. Finally the movie was made; almost twenty years later I had my tickets and watched Harrison Ford as Indy again at last...People, what took you so long?, after all the wait you come up with this? Despite the digital animal that opens the film and seeing Indy survive an atomic explosion (?!!) by using a fridge, the first part of the movie still remind the audience to the original Indy, but once they travel to Peru the film is completely lost (BTW is using a CGI really THAT necessary for that simple opening scene?, don't they remember we've seen thousands of snakes, bugs, bats and rats in the same franchise, all of them for real?).Once the travel to South America (what's the point on showing us they take the motorbike with them?, just to say "oh I left it at the cemetery"?) it turns into a "mummy" movie, with all the abuse of CGIs that is common these days in almost every Hollywood movie, but it's really painful to find all those cheap cheesy cartoonish digital effects in a Spielberg movie.The script is so easy that all the characters do is running straight till the end of the movie. They escape from the Russians, they escape from the ants, they escape from the indians just running straight and using this multi purpose skull. No real troubles for our hero, not any sub-plot, not any emotion, nor romance, nor thrilling adventure. Laaame.It is really hard to believe this movie was directed by Spielberg. At least not that mythical 80's Spielberg. Crystall Skull is a lot more like Spielberg's Hook or Amistad.When he was shooting, Spielberg said with a big smile that he was making this movie for all the fans, and I believed him. Now I see this movie is nothing but a practical joke for all of them. I feel sort of betrayed.The only good thing about this nonsense is seeing Ford again as Indy. He does his best, and he is REALLY Indiana. It's a shame the rest weren't able to meet the challenge.Steven, George: what happened to you? I just don't understand.
__label__1 Nothing new to add here but personal sadness and disappointment: what a great franchise this was, what a lovable character, now destroyed by pure Lucasian incompetence. I'd really loved all the first three movies, because in my opinion, they were perfect examples for timeless adventure classics and movie magic extraordinaire, each in its own style. Indy himself was one of my childhood heroes ... heck, I even loved the TV series (well, mostly), but when I saw this one, I almost puked my guts out. Honestly, I wanted to like it badly, but this flick is so incredibly stupid, so inconsistent and amazingly badly written, it's plain unbearable. All things which made the other movies so great are missing: the excitement of discovery, the thrilling adventure, the enjoyable character relations, the sarcastic yet charming humor, the over-the-top but still believable action scenes - all gone. What remains is this brainless, soulless, uninspired load of junk that (sadly) will score at the box office anyway, just because it's Indy - sort of. But worst of all, as you can clearly see in almost every take, the love is gone from the franchise. Even Harrison Ford looks mostly like he's just going through the motions. For my part, I blame it all on the ABSOLUTELY SHITTY AND THOROUGHLY DUMB SCRIPT that 1) DENIES THE ACTORS ALMOST EVERY POSSIBILITY TO ACT (Karen Allen being the worst example) and 2) has literally everything that also made the star wars prequels fail: the ham-fisted dialogue, the completely ridiculous "storytelling", forced character development and relations, plot holes one could fly the death star through, overused CGI effects, the lamest humor imaginable ... the list goes on and on. So thanks, George Lucas, for ruining just another childhood love of mine - you couldn't have made it worse by introducing Steven Seagal as Indys long lost brother. But probably, that's what you were up to anyway and Spielberg just talked you out of it.Bottom line: 20 years of waiting in vain ... excuse me now, but I think I'll go hiding in the basement and cry a little.
__label__1 Pixar have always been a shining light of absolute quality in story telling, characters and animation.Where DreamWorks and Disney often labor the point of a story, or fumble around in sentimentality, mediocrity - Pixar have always been absolutely genius at bringing something original and truly memorable to the screen. A company that produces such wonderful movies as Cars, The Incredibles, Nemo, Toy Story and Wall-E - should not, could not - produce this completely worthless piece of nonsense.My three year old spends his days singing the songs from Cars, recreating the action with his toys, and playing with his Woody and Buzz - he's also a HUGE dinosaur fan - so while something like "Inside Out" is a bit beyond him, how could a dinosaur movie where the dinosaur is good rather than 'scarewee' as he says go wrong!!!!Seemingly on every single level.While the scenery is gorgeously rendered with absolute realism the characters themselves are completely devoid of any effort at all. There is nothing about Arlo the dinosaur or the small human boy that is even slightly interesting or novel. They are drawn and animated as though someone said to an animator - you have 10 minutes to render a dinosaur and a small boy. It is saying something when the toy dinosaur in Toy Story is rendered with more love and affection, and more genuine character than any dinosaur in an entire movie which has the word 'Dinosaur' in the title.Apart from a small 2 minute section of the movie, where they meet a very interesting hippie dinosaur who was brilliant but who they inexplicably just bump into, exchange about 20 words with and then leave - there is no redeeming or interesting character anywhere in the movie.Arlos father seems to be more interested in Arlo murdering a child, his siblings seem to be evil bullies - Arlo himself is a wimp and the human child is more wolf like than human. Every other character they meet seems to be either racist (some deep South accented dinosaurs portrayed as dumb hicks) or some weird T-Rexes who gallop along rounding up bison with accents straight out of John Wayne movies.The film moves from one scary scene to the next, so from horrible storm and a badly injured limping Arlo, to Arlos father being drowned in the river, to Arlo in another storm falling down a hill and passing out in the water, to him falling off a cliff, to him running out of food, to being attacked and hunted and so on and so on.It is completely relentless in its desire to just move to another cliff hanger. The friendship between Arlo and the human boy seems like fluff - with just silly setups like character A gets stuck, wakes to find character B has helped them. Character A gets hungry, finds character B leaving or shoving food there way. Character A and B fall asleep and wake up to find they're leaning against each other. There are no genuine touching moments, "Ice Age" while garbage compared to most of Pixars output, still managed a more convincing buddy story of odd companions traveling together than did this movie.At the end of the movie Arlo finds his way home and inexplicably pushes the human boy onto a random human family that he moments before rejected for some reason. He makes his way home and is allowed to leave his foot print on a wall which he wasn't allowed to do earlier because his family viewed him as a giant clumsy wimp who wouldn't kill a human.There was so much opportunity for a movie which had the premise that "What if, the dinosaurs weren't wiped out". But apart from the farm that Arlo and his family come from, there is no indication of any dinosaur civilization other than random ones that try to either attack him or eat him. I was expecting something more Flintstones - but it seams that the only premise for the meteor missing the earth was to allow a dinosaur and a human to co-exist in the story.
__label__1 I was beyond disappointed with this movie. I actually checked online in the middle to make sure this was actually a Pixar film. The writing was so abhorrent that I almost got up and left in the middle. One line that I just found unbelievable was when the scar-faced dinosaur said he drowned the crocodile in a pool of his own blood! There was absolutely no comic relief and I only felt relieved when it ended. It is on par with the unedited version of Toy Story. Will think twice about going to the theater to watch another Pixar film. Don't waste your money. We went to see Inside Out at the theater and even though it had adult themes and was stressful at times, it had a deep redeeming meaning. I know that they were trying to show the bond of family and friendship but it was so lacking. If the whole script was rewritten to be funnier and less scary, then it would be worth it.
__label__1 Probably the worst animated film I ve seen the last decade. What annoyed me most was the fact that Pixar decided to use a very common plot such as "farm boy lost in the wild try to find its way to home with the help of a wild animal" but in order to mix it a bit and attract more audience, the farm boy ended up to be a dinosaur and its wild pet a human...For real? Is this a dinosaur movie? Seeing dinosaurs behaving like humans and humans as wild animals isn't what I call a plot!It is just disturbing! Moreover, the fact that Pixar decided that the evolved dinosaurs would create human-like societies instead of following a different path shows lack of imagination! Everyone loves dinosaurs because they represent something exotic in our minds, humanizing dinosaurs at this level is just disgusting!
__label__1 Let me begin by saying that I've never seen a Disney film I didn't like, but this was the first movie I've ever walked out on.Inside Out went viral and word spread it was a charming movie. The opposite is the case for The Good Dinosaur; word is spreading that it is an awful movie. You can't rely on stunning graphics to make a successful movie. The storyline was boring and it recycled the same plots as Land Before Time (not Disney), Finding Nemo, and The Lion King making it extremely predictable. However, unlike those three successful movies, there was very little humour, charm, or heartfelt moments present in this film. It relied heavily on action and cliffhangers. Although the moral of the story is good, "sometimes you've gotta get through your fears to see the beauty on the other side", it was nothing profound. Think of the message as though it was a gourmet dinner served on the lid of a trash can. Although the film is promoted as a children's' film (Its rated PG but it's advertised on the preschool Disney Jr channel), it is not a children's' movie! Forget the intense moments of the Poppa dying near the beginning Mufasa style, or the violent dinosaur fights.. The same happened in The Lion King and I expected it in this film as well. Don't be naive to think that animal violence wouldn't make an appearance in a dinosaur film. However, many of the dinosaurs in the movie are cruel and down right creepy! A gang of pterodactyls manipulate Arlo into helping their search and rescue team (which turns out to be a cult, 'the storm provides') and after Arlo saves a baby animal, the leader eats the baby alive. Really Disney? Not necessary. There is also many inappropriate drug references in this film. The obvious being when Arlo and Spot ingested some rotten berries and hallucinate. If that was the only alcohol/drug reference for the sake of humour, I could look past it (Think Dumbo's pink elephant parade, Tangled's drunk Cupid, etc). However, there are at least two more drug references that were more sneaky and clever to impress the adults in the audience (the paranoid drug induced spiritualist triceratop, the gang of meth addicted hillbilly velociraptors). Just inappropriate in my opinion and they made for a cast of unlikable, creepy dinosaurs. I guess Arlo was the Good Dinosaur because he said no to drugs...I hate it when reviewers say this movie is inappropriate for children because of the animalistic violence. Again, what did you expect? It isn't scary, it's more disturbing and unlikable. As a major Disney and Pixar fan, I am sad to say this movie is a major flop and does not live up to the standards many parents expect from these studios.
__label__1 I went to watch it expecting to find it childish, or perhaps a little predictable, but it was far worse than I could imagine. Not suitable for kids, and absolutely terrible for adults. It practically is a very, VERY bad imitation of The Lion King, along with a bit from Brother Bear, Ice Age, A Bug's Life etc., but completely lacking the heart and meaning of any of these movies. The movie doesn't even explore the implications of dinosaurs existing along with humans, to the point where it made me wonder why they didn't just pick some random animals to tell their story and let go of the whole alternate reality of dinosaurs and humans co-existing altogether.There isn't really much of a plot to begin with. It's a road trip kind of movie (like most recent Disney and Pixar movies), during which Arlo, a young dinosaur, meets a human child with whom they become unlikely friends (surprise surprise), and many random characters along the way, who do very little to move the story forward. There is too much unnecessary violence, as well as a very weird drug scene, neither of which seem to serve the (limited) plot in any way. In addition to all that, the film isn't that visually beautiful either: the backgrounds are extremely detailed, whereas the dinosaurs look very cartoony and out of place.Almost every scene of it felt familiar, from the human boy stealing the dinosaurs' food and them going after it, resulting to Arlo's father's death (Brother Bear), to Arlo and his father having 'meaningful' conversations about bravery under the, well, fireflies (The Lion King), to the supposedly bittersweet moment in which Arlo lets the little boy stay with the other humans (The Jungle Book/Ice Age). The Lion King kind of moments in particular where countless; Arlo even roars at some point, to little effect, until he manages to do it properly towards the end of the movie, for heaven's sake! Also, for some reason I do not seem to comprehend, the human boy was behaving, not like a human or an ape, but more like a dog, much like Maximus in Tangled and Sven in Frozen.All in all, don't watch this movie. Stay home and re-watch the Lion King; it has so much more to offer, even if you're watching it for the millionth time.
__label__1 As a parent, I've come to expect a lot from Disney/Pixar - always a safe bet for my little ones. Until now. This movie was pretty slow, and when various critters they show first as cute are suddenly eaten before my children's eyes, that was the end of the movie for us. This came after the scene where one character rips the head off another creature. My children were alternately bored and scared - definitely not what you expect in a Disney children's film. Not a film for little kids (preschool or younger) with some scenes that are guaranteed to give my young ones some nightmares and yet too boring with almost no comedy for children beyond grade school or adults. We left when my five year old turned to me and said "Mom, can we leave? This isn't fun."
__label__1 I love The Incredibles, Up, Shrek, Toy Story, Monsters Inc., Despicable Me and Megeaman. I thought I was going to see something that amazing, but with a female protagonist. But no. It was the same old Disney princess movie: a princess having problems about who she is or is not going to marry. We saw that in Snow White, Seeping Beauty, Cinderella, The Little Mermaid. Apparently, that all females ever do: fret about who they are going to marry.Spoiler alert.The movie starts out great: funny characters, great scenery, Scottish accents, and a promising protagonist. I'm sucked in and expecting something amazing and interesting, like the other Pixar movies. Then, of course, since it is the Dark Ages (and Disney, not "really" Pixar), the hand of the princess will be the prize in a contest. Been there, done that. Of course she doesn't want that, so she runs away and finds a witch and asks the witch to change her . . . her . . . fate? Like the trailers said? No. She wants to change her MOM. The princess does not want to grow and mature, she want's mom to quit bugging her. Mom has done everything she can to give the princess a wonderful life and educate and prepare her for a life of queen-ship. But that's not what the princess wants. The princess wants – what? She really has no viable alternative. It's not like she can go and get a career. The movie implies that if she gets married, she can't ride her horse or shoot her bow any more. Why not? So they parade out the three husband candidates and of course, even though they are the sons of great chieftains, they are all worthless. Predictable, boring plot. What if one of them was handsome, charming, and a good archer, then she might not have minded getting married and we could have seen the wedding in 3D.Back to the witch. Well, the witch only knows ONE spell: change it into a bear. That's a big help. The last person who bucked conformity and wanted to do his own thing, he got changed into a wild, destructive bear too. Is that one of the lessons in this movie? Conform or you will become a wild, destructive, shunned animal? When her mother eats the magic cake and begins to feel sick, all the princess can think about is if she still has to get married. What if the magic cake killed her mom? The princess doesn't seem too worried. Is this one of the lessons of the movie? If your parents are trying to do the very best for you, and it's cramping your style, just drug them to get them off your back. After mom turns into a bear, there was no plot any more. It was just running around like Bugs, Daffy and Elmer in the forest and the castle until it was time for the movie to end. BORING.Then there was the big speech the princess gave in the banquet room about "Can't we all just get along?" What was that about? Everyone was partying and getting along just fine. Lame.So the princess cries and tells mom that she's sorry (of course she is now that everything's a mess), and mom turns back into a person. But who has the character arc? Not the princess. The princess still does not want to get married. MOM is the one who changes, and she had better! After all, she knows that if she leans too hard on her daughter to do what's best, the daughter will drug her. So is that the lesson in the movie? Don't pressure your kids to do what you know is best for them, or they could get punitive. So mom caves in and says the young people can chose by falling in love. There's a ground-breaking moral. News flash: western women have not been getting betrothed for centuries.And why did they call the movie "Brave". The Princess didn't do anything brave in the whole movie. In fact, she had a hissy fit, ran from her responsibilities, and turned to drugs to solve the problems.I don't care if it was 6 years in the making, or how amazing the 3D effects were: the story was a dud.
__label__1 That is exactly what I thought when the film was over.Seriously, that was a Pixar film? You have to be joking.When you get right down to it, it's yet another misfit princess story. It's about a somewhat unruly princess who wants something different in life than what her parents want for her. Now how many times have we seen this story before? I'm not even going to list off those stories, because most of you know and have seen them by now.Simply, there is nothing in this movie that was memorable and that we haven't seen before. We get the misfit princess story, and that's exactly what we get. No surprises. It was all very predictable......until midway through the movie. (SPOILER ALERT) In case you haven't seen the film, the princess(Merida) is not your typical princess. She's outgoing - she's a fighter. She is particularly good at archery, supposedly better than everyone else. But since she's a princess, OF COURSE she has to marry a prince. Does she want to marry a prince? NO. Are all of her suitors complete idiots who are unworthy of her? ABSOLUTELY. Do her parents understand her? OF COURSE NOT. Does this remind you of any other better movies? So anyway, since her mother in particular doesn't see eye-to-eye with her, Merida pulls a petty trick on her by slipping her a potion that would "change her". Gee, this couldn't turn out to be anything bad, right? Well, it turned out bad alright, and provided the only surprise in the movie: Her mother turns into a BEAR! You've got to be kidding me.The rest of the film is spend having Merida trying to undo the spell whilst goofing around with her mother bear friend. (END SPOILER ALERT) If you are curious enough to see where that part of the story goes, you should see it for yourself.All in all, it's a very forgettable movie. There were some attempted laughs in the film, but none that made me so much as chuckle. It was mostly cookie-cutter children's movie writing; the kind of "funny" things you'd expect the characters to be saying rather than giving them some charming uniqueness.Am I the only one who despises the three little boys? The whole time I got the feeling that the writers were using them as a device to keep the story interesting for little kids. I had the same complaint about the three gargoyles in The Hunchback of Notre Dame; They were irritating and added nothing to the story. All they added were typical "little boy" mischief that made me yearn for the end of the current scene.The only amount of heart in this film was after the mother threw Merida's bow in the fire, and then we see her pull it out of the fire regretfully, realizing what she had done. Granted, that's not much, but at least that's SOME glimpse into a character. They could have easily ended the scene right there, and made the mother look like a complete witch, but for a brief moment, we get to see a little bit of how the mother actually feels.Thanks for wasting my money, Pixar!
__label__1 This is the epitome of burying the lead But the trailer seemed a bit strange to begin with. Instead of the usual montage summing up the entire movie, or at least half of it, we get one scene: an assertive tomboy princess with neat looking fiery red hair shoots an arrow to choose her own fate instead of a bunch of losers vying to marry her: the one that hits the bulls eye wins her hand in marriage. (Let's make it clear, all three young men are pathetic wrecks: if one resembled an Elfin Johnny Depp with half a brain, perhaps there'd be no story at all.) After our frustrated heroine, Princess Merida, hits all the marks by herself, the real tale begins – and not only is it strange, awkward and confusing, but even the target-audience children might shake their heads in disbelief.Merida, in order to change her destiny, seeks a forest witch who gives her a spell. Then, back at the castle, Merida offers her mom – the person really in charge of this arranged marriage thing – a spiked muffin that quickly changes her into a giant bear! This was unplanned; Merida wanted to change her mother, not change her mother. The rest of the movie has the Princess keeping Mother Bear away from her huntsman father who, years earlier and as the film began, lost his leg battling a you got it bear. And then her three troublesome little brothers turn into bears and there's the one big bad bear from the intro that's part of a confusing backstory about a fallen prince.So with all the potential of setting a movie in the time where trolls and gnomes and dragons and fairies and kings and queens and knights could have roamed the mystical Celtic countryside, we get a bunch of common bears and a stretched-out story lacking a real plot, leaving only the memory of that "trailer" that would have made a fantastic short film to open a real movie with.For More Reviews: www.cultfilmfreaks.com
__label__1 The Gene Roddenberry's legacy is nowhere to find in this film. This Star Trek movie feels more as a Marvel Comics flick than a Star Trek movie. One- dimensional characters, a whirlwind of imagery, a meager story and over the top villains and hero's. A true Star Trek movie for me is one with a nice story, sound science, a spec of humor, real characters, and last but not least; always in search of the human condition. Star trek is more than the sum of episodes and movies, its a way of thinking, and inspired millions of people -personal and professional- to make the world a better place. The brightest people off all humanity, like Stephen Hawking, NASA scientists, all love Star Trek. If Director Justin Lin had seen all of the Star Trek series and movies, he would never made such a terrible -for me- horrible movie.
__label__1 Easily the Worst Star Trek I have ever seen. Has Zero elements known for being Trek and simply transplanted Fast & Furious into Outer Space.Story-wise its utter trash. Would Starfleet have the tech to build a vast city-station of the type seen in this at such an early stage in Federation history? No.It moves so fast its incomprehensible- the CGI and lens flares make it look so synthetic I realized how good the miniatures and physical effects looked in the early movies and ached to see them again.Krall- the bad guy's motives are never really explained and is a totally forgettable villain- just an excuse for more CGI.The only saving grace are the performances of Simon Pegg and Karl Urban who really nail their performances as Scotty and Bones.So thanks to JJ and company TWO of the greatest SF franchises lay in ruins, raped and eviscerated. ST and SW.
__label__1 I really didn't think it could get any worse after Into Darkness. Oh yes, it did big time. I am not able to review the movie in full as I turned off after about 1 hour or so. It's not Star Trek - full stop! I would rather watch Enterprise, that's how bad it is. Please no more, please!
__label__1 Watched this wretched movie last nite. The only good things: Nice to see a tribute to Leonard Nimoy/Spock. Sorry, only one good thing.Action? Nope, not even the crash landing of the saucer, seen that before. With no engines, tell me again how it got moving? Acting? Nope, and I am getting tired of Bones (Karl Urban) constantly 'joking' with Spock, way too forced and contrived. Give it up already.Kirk (Chris Pine) can motocross like a pro on convenient roads. Instant action scenes that give me ADHD attacks.Bad guys? Nope, nothing new, seen in many other movies. Morphed human goes berserk.Logic? None, why did Krall wait for the Enterprise to attack Yorktown? Simon Pegg/Scotty, should stay in the engineering level and fix nacelles or food replicators and definitely stop writing screenplays.If there is one more Star Trek movie like this, I am out forever as a fan and will not watch beyond (pun intended) it.The soul is gone.
__label__1 Those of you who haven't seen this movie, do yourself a favor and skip it. If you gave this movie a high rating when it was out, I suggest you try to watch it again. I'm betting that you will see what I saw -- a really bad movie. In fact, it is so bad, I'm actually taking this time out of my day to write this. I feel ripped off by it.The dialogue was so bad, the audience was laughing at it throughout the movie. With the crap they had to work with, the actors didn't shine either. Chris Pine came off stiff and unlike-able. He's still not my favorite Kirk but he's been good prior. With nothing to work with in terms of a script, the cast is just limp and uninteresting.The story itself is silly and implausible. Now, I know in science fiction you have to suspend belief to some degree but this story just stretched me way to far in terms of mad coincidences.I couldn't wait for this film to end. I'm a life-long Star Trek fan but I'm bailing on this reboot series. "Beyond" was the worst Star Trek movie I've ever seen.
__label__1 Lee and Carter are no Riggs and Murtaugh! An attempt on the Chinese Ambassador's life is made just as he is about to reveal the names of the Triad leaders. While the ambassador is lying in the hospital, Detective Carter (Chris Tucker) and Chief Inspector Lee (Jackie Chan) promise his daughter that they will catch the man who attempted to assassinate her father. Lee and Carter travel to Paris to save the girl, solve the crime and catch the bad guy.The story goes that this film was not released in China because they only can release a certain number of Western films per year and they had reached their quota. Also, the other reason they gave for not releasing a film in which China's biggest star appears was that the Chinese censors found Chris Tucker's character offensive. When I heard this, I thought it was just another case of political correctness gone mad and it couldn't possibly be that bad. After seeing the movie, however, I have to agree. I wish it had not been released here either.The movie only runs just under 90 minutes (thankfully). The stunts are nothing spectacular and the comedy set pieces are below average. In fact, the funniest part of the movie is the blooper reel at the end, which would lead me to believe that it is not the fault of the leads that the movie is not really that funny or engaging. The blame should lie firmly at the feet of the writers.With my saying all of this, I am sure fans of the series will turn out to see it in droves; yet, I can't help but think that most will find this the weakest in the series. But don't worry, Rush Hour 4 is on its way. I am sure it will be better  well, let's face it, it couldn't be any worse.
__label__1 I really hadn't thought it could be as bad as it was. I found it downright offensive in a few points and the humor was weak at best.Potential spoiler...There's a scene where they force a French taxi driver at gunpoint to sing the US National Anthem which made me spontaneously so ashamed to be American I wanted to crawl out of the theater and apologize to the rest of the planet. It was ugly to an extreme. I think the worst bit is whoever wrote it likely thought it was funny.I'm rather certain one could almost pick any other film showing and have a better time. I wanted to walk out of the theater several times. The only reason I didn't was that I had gone with a friend, and even at that I considered leaving anyway.
__label__1 well, i liked the first one of this series. Not as much as the more better HK Jackie films, but nearly as funny as Jackie cooperation with Owen Wilson.This movie has nothing; no humor, boring actors, boring action scenes and an even more boring plot. The chemistry between the actors has completely vanished, and what's left is some good shot movie sequences in Paris, which looked more like an alibi than really necessary for the plot. Jackie's talent for comedy, which was really excellent in US movies like "Shanghai Noon", is simply not existent in this one. The rest is an under average action comedy without and funny gags at all. Most of the attempts of the movie to be funny are simply embarrassing.Overall there is nothing in it that could possibly be remembered, and this is very low for a Jackie Chan movie.
__label__1 so i have registered on this just to say how badly i think Chris tucker ruined this one and the ones before it. i mean at times he is funny but in this one he killed all. the screechy voice is only to be used sometimes when needed to show something. but not always this screechy voice.. i know his role in the movie isn't so much by choice so i guess the creator or whatever it is called of rush hour three really wrecked it with Chris' part. but hey better luck next time.. maybe this will turn into a land before time kinda deal with like who knows how many movies. rush 46 Jackie's revenge on Chris for having shot his gf long ago......
__label__1 The only good part of the movie are the out-takes at the end.I enjoyed the first Rush Hour, and the sequel after that, but this one was just plain stupid. There were maybe a couple of funny scenes, but overall the humor just wasn't there. Then there's that god-awful taxi cab scene! How on earth someone could come up with such trash and think it would be funny is beyond me! It was embarrassing and insulting to watch.I liked Jackie Chan in the previous movies, but in this one we don't get to see enough of the fighting he's known for, and the fights we are treated to are just boring. Perhaps it's just getting old. Then along with his mediocre acting we have to stomach him singing. Not that his singing is that terrible, but by the time that scene arrives I was already sick and tired of the whole movie.Avoid this one.
__label__1 There are four main things wrong with Rush Hour 3: Chris Tucker, Chris Tucker, Brett Ratner and Chris Tucker. Here we have another example of a film franchise that is too successful for its own good, and in the year of threequels, this was one we didn't need.Set a few years after Rush Hour 2, James Carter (Chris Tucker) is no more then an LA traffic cop and Lee (Jackie Chan) is the head bodyguard for the Chinese Ambassador. The Chinese Ambassador is about to reveal who the heads of the Triads are when he is shot and wounded by a sniper. James and Lee end up working together again, and take their investigation Paris and set out to break-up the Triad.The plot is skeleton thin, like they have been in the previous Rush Hour films; but this is a new low! The plot is overly silly, and way too over the top. The film repeats the same plot with even less success. There are pointless sub-plots, some thinks that wouldn't even work in a action comedy, like Lee haven't a Japanese step-brother. The treatment of the French is awful, unrealistic and just playing to neo-Con crowd in the States which was out of date even in 2007. I can imagine some idiots cheering when Chris Tucker forced a French Taxi driver to sing the American national anthem. It is the stereotypical Hollywood of the French where their our hopeless, corrupt and completely anti-American and Xenophobic. It's complete rubbish.Chris Tucker is the film's lowest point. He is a terrible actor and comedian. His style of humour is simply to shot as loudly and as quickly as possible. They is no wit or insight in to his humour. He can't act and he is really annoying. He offers nothing but racism in his humour, pretty much saying, 'I'm Black, you're Asian'. If it was a white comedian then they would be an absolute media storm. They are many more talent comedians and actors of African-American descent, like Chris Rock to Will Smith to Denzel Washington. The film also suffers from bad writing in the jokes department. I saw some of Rush Hour and whilst it wasn't a classic, it at least has some sharper writing behind it. What is more sickening is that Chris Tucker got paid $30 Million for this rubbish, there are many talented people struggling to break through in the industry.Jackie Chan, a master of material arts and a legend of Hong Kong cinema is little served by this film, having very little to do. He doesn't even get to use his talents in material arts that much. I'm such he only did the film for money (he got a percentage of the Asian profit) and loyalty because the series gave him his big break in Hollywood. Even he doesn't like the humour in the series.Brett Ratner is a terrible director, a hack who is a man you get when no one else is available. He was hired to Red Dragon because the studio wanted a safe pair of hands to copy Johnathan Demme style of Silence of the Lambs, and turned X-Men from an excellent sci-fi series into no more then a wham-bam action film. Here with Rush Hour, he is flogging a dead horse with a pointless second sequel to a film which was only okay to begin with. He shoots some rubbish action scene, like the material arts school, he can't handle humour and he can't reign in his actors (a problem he always suffers). He is a man who such quit directing because he only offers rubbish after rubbish.A great example of the awfulness of the film is a joke involving two Chinese characters called Yu and Mi, and Chris Tucker motormouth confusion.A needless film that should be avoid. It is not a fun film like it pretends to be. If you dislike Chris Tucker you would possibly end up self harming if you watch this.
__label__1 I have never written a review before this one. Let me begin by saying I am a very qualified movie enthusiast. I love movies , all types of movies but sometimes I get fed up. And like most people won't say anything. But this movie enraged me. Rush hour and its sequel.....Rush Hour 2, both had the kinetic energy and drew a fine line between slapstick and action well. To be honest I'm not a Chris tucker fan I mean he has made 2 movies this century....the aforementioned Rush Hour 2 and now 3. He was brilliant in the first two movies though and was really funny. So this isn't an attack.First If you have a budget of $140 million dollars here is an idea get a script. Not one that keeps making you go I have no idea why or what just happened but oh well. Or I know ...be funny. A couple funny lines in a movie doesn't make it a funny movie.Second if you watch the movie close enough it copy's, takes or borrows plot devices and scenes from a lot of other movies that were way better.I want people to think about this $140 MILLION dollars(just let that sit there for a second) Third Since when did a Jackie Chan movie become so filled with special effects that the stunts don't even seem the least bit real therefore you can't even become engaged in the action. For crying out loud at one point they are sitting on the road and it looks like they have a blue screen behind them oooh dangerous......$140 MILLION dollars.Did I mention the runtime or as I like to call it actual time 81 minutes minus the credits, which movie company's always add in so their films seem longer. This is what we as the movie going public will get if we don't say ENOUGH! I would rather wait 10yrs. for a movie thats half decent than 6 years and get this $140 Million dollar movie that we told the movie execs is OK to make. What would you buy for a $140 MILLION dollars?
__label__1 I was well aware that this movie would be about over-the-top action and CGI only and so I decided to shut down my brain to stand-by and direct all available blood to the eyes and ears. A technique that works perfectly for classic Bruce Willis or Arnie films giving you 2 hours of entertainment and fun. Unfortunately this time it did not work. "2012" delivers so many low blows to a homo sapiens' mind that some kind of subconscious alarm must have been triggered that woke up my brain to avoid any permanent damage. Then the real suffering began.You don't expect to get a good script with witty dialog and good storytelling in movies like this - and you don't get it. You don't expect the best and most convincing actors in the world in movies like this - and you don't get them. Woody Harrelson being the only exception. You probably don't expect the best editing, lighting, costume designing etc. in movies like this - and you don't get them.You DO expect overwhelming visuals in this kind of movies - you get them partially. You DO expect thrills and suspense and surprises in this kind of movies - you don't get them.Roland Emmerich artfully manages to make watching the end of the world in monumental pictures a thoroughly boring experience. Why? Because this film never touches you in any way. The main characters remain shallow throughout the whole 158 minutes. Some are just not interesting, others are so overdrawn (Yuri, Tamara) that you just can't think of them as real people. The story does not develop and lead to something you did not expect. There is no flow. Ridiculous action scenes alternate with pathetic, kitschy good-bye talks that fail to catch you because NO actual human being would ever talk or act in the ways depicted here. There is no realism at all in virtually any scene of the film so how could you manage to connect to it?But the worst of all is the awkward exaggeration in EVERYTHING shown on the screen. It is nice to see a nail-biting last-second escape in a movie. Seeing your main characters taking a one-in-a-million chance every ten minutes is revolting. It is an insult to your intelligence. In this respect "2012" has set a new standard. It makes all four "Indiana Jones" movies look like documentaries. Who cares for the laws of physics? Just invent new ones if it is necessary to save the hero!Of course this is fiction and you are allowed some creativity to keep things going but there is a limit to what you can ask from the viewer to believe.*** Spoiler*** My "favourite" scene of the movie: Our heroes are on a Russian cargo plane heading for China. The plane is piloted by one professional and a student pilot who has had a few hours on a single engine sports airplane(?). After having survived a last-second escape (see?) from the airport they are planning to get a refueling at Hawaii. Unfortunately the island has turned into a lump of molten lava and they have to continue their flight knowing they would not make it to China but go down somewhere in the open waters. The very moment they run out of fuel they discover that the Asian continent has moved 2500 kilometers in their direction(!) and they crash-land their aircraft on some elevated plain a stone's throw from the original destination! Of course there is a group of helicopters flying by only minutes later to pick them up and get them to the secret base they were heading for... *** End of Spoiler ***And no, this is not an exception. There are numerous parts like this. It is just like I said: an insult to your intelligence.Believe me, I could easily list at least a hundred of flaws and errors made in this movie ranging from human behavior over technical design to mathematical chances - not even regarding the constant violation of physical principles.All in all I am convinced that it is for your own good not to spend your money on buying a ticket for this crap but find any other use for it. Burning it is a legitimate alternative. At least that would save your time.
__label__1 2012 cost 260 million dollars and is 158 minutes long. At roughly 2 million dollars a minute, one might at least expect a thrill-a-second work of exciting entertainment, since one does not go to a Roland Emmerich movie expecting either art or deep meaning. Unfortunately, the many millions spent on this bloated, overblown "B" genre programmer could not guarantee the filmmakers a good script with a tight plot and interesting characters. Emmerich treats his own screenplay (co-written by Harold Klausner) with a level of seriousness customarily reserved for the Holocaust or biopics of figures like Jesus Christ or Mahatma Ghandi. There is no plot to speak of - Jackson Curtis (John Cusack) learns of the impending end of the world and has to rescue his offspring and ex-wife from danger. That's all that happens in the entire movie - for over 2.5 hours! By the 4th or 5th time we have seen Jackson and his gang escape death (whether by earthquake, plane crash, volcanic eruption, tsunami, etc., etc.) the whole thing has become so turgid and wearisome that one finds oneself rooting for the tsunami to kill them all just so the movie can end and one can go home. The thin plot might not be all that bad if the film were better-paced and more exciting, but Emmerich wants you to know that he is A Serious Auteur and that 2012 is an Important Film About Our Time, so every sequence keeps going WAY past its sell-by date. Watching this movie is like being hit in the head with a wooden plank multiple times - one is eventually stunned into abject submission. Emmerich does everything at least twice, and his respect for his own material seems to have convinced him that 2012 could not have been shorter by one second, when at least 45 minutes of useless sub-plots involving disposable minor characters as well as repetitive sequences of cities collapsing, flames covering the sky, 1500 meter waves drowning everything in sight and famous monuments crumbling into depthless chasms could and should have been left on the cutting-room floor. By the time Jackson saves the high-tech ark containing what's left of North American civilization (don't ask), apparently by channeling Shelley Winters' swim scene from The Poseidon Adventure, any sense of awe which the sight of huge waves washing over the Himalayas should generate in the audience has been replaced by a numb wish that the whole thing will be over soon and a prayer that one's brain death will only be temporary. After watching a whole lot of cities get destroyed again and again, one simply becomes mentally and visually exhausted by the whole bloated mess. Surprisingly strong performances from a thoroughly professional cast are wasted on tissue-thin characterizations - but believe me, these performers earned their money just from being able to say the bland, clichéd lines they are given with a straight face. Furthermore, despite the appearance of realism thanks to some technically flawless CGI, there is no blood or gore - there should be body parts raining down from the sky during the destruction of LA, but somehow no one seems to be on the streets. On the other hand, a lot of blood and gore might have reminded the movie audience that one is in fact watching a film about the extinction of literally billions of living things, but why should something so petty be more important than seeing whether John Cusack will get back together with his ex-wife and become a hero so his whiny, spoiled son will accept him? In any case, what does it say about contemporary society that a movie showing nothing less than the destruction of the entire world is rated "PG-13"? As far as the "science" and "facts" behind this utterly ridiculous bit of piffle, the less said about that, the better. Of course, this piece of overblown trash will probably turn hundreds of millions for its makers and secure Emmerich's position as one of the top commercial directors of the day. At least if the world actually ends in 2012, all copies of 2012 will be destroyed.
__label__1 I was looking forward to this movie coming out. Went tonight, and what a let down. 1. Was very slow at that start. Took forever to get going. Yes, you have to supply an intro to get acquainted with the characters, and a base for the story. But it took forever! Needless useless dialog. Way too much information, and typical bs that can be found in all disaster movies. 2. Speaking of disaster movies, this one follows all the others in cheap storyline and thrills. a. Typical disorganized hero with an estranged wife and kids. b. Typical step-father (who ends up being left out) Remember the fiancée in Twister? c. Typical African-American President. In Hollywood ALL Presidents must be African-American... Unless they are evil... then they can be white. d. Bad guy turns good in the end... then is killed. e. Super smart scientist that convinces the world and saves the day. f. Government holding secrets from the populous. 3. VERY UNREAL storyline. Just some really... I mean really STUPID scenarios.4. How many times do you have to have a runway drop out from under you before you decide it is not a good idea to land?5. Take a few flying lessons and you can not only fly... but navigate a Queen Air! 6. A lot of coincidences that are just way too hard to believe!7. Story drags... and drags.... and drags and goes on dragging for 2.5 hours! After a while you just end up saying yourself... "Just end the world... I need relief!"8. They just tried to jam too many (already done) disaster scenes. A combination of Poseidon Adventure, Deep Impact, Hard Rain, Airport, Armageddon, etc, etc, etc.Anything good??? Special effects were "ok". At least kept me awake. Whatever you do.... Save your money don't pay $10.00 to see it. Don't spend money on the DVD either. Don't even pay a $1.00 at the cubical to rent. Wait for it to come out on TV... then if you have nothing else to do... watch it for the special effects!
__label__1 This truly was a badly constructed movie lacking in imagination and any shred of humanity. Well, not quite. The humanity was distributed racially according to current Hollywood standards of what are the superior and inferior races.The whites, are generally rather silly or in some cases, outright evil. The chief bad guy is a white adviser to the an idealized President Obama played by Danny Glover who played Danny Glover perfectly. The chief good guys are the president's daughter and black adviser - the latter who is the only character who seems to have some roots in being a human. The others do not.Instead, they are as stereotyped as any 1930's movie, but with different characteristics more or less. The theme is a rush to board savior ships due to the end of the world about to occur. The occupants of the ships will be few compared to the billions about to die. These lucky few come from two pools - the world 'leaders' and their cronies as well as a few who can buy tickets costing roughly $1,500,000,000 each. Some of the wealthy who've bought their tickets are Arabs. Upon noting this, the *good guy*, the black guy, sneers out something like, "Is this the type of gene pool we wish to preserve?" saying more about the culture of Hollywood than Arab culture.At one point, a character makes the important point that the savior ships should contain primarily young people who are robust enough to be pioneers and also have the ability to reproduce. Then, a bit later, we see the ancient Queen of England entering the ark ship with her dogs. So much for rational allocation of ark space. In fact, these aren't the only dogs to make it aboard. The film emphasizes in many places how more important it is to save Paris Hilton's dog than any of the humans who are being drowned, ground to a smear, blown up, crushed by avalanches or incinerated. It gleefully shows worshipers gathered at the Vatican to listen to the pope dying as the Vatican crumbles crushing not only them but the pope, the College of Cardinals and others detested by today's Hollywoood. Yet Paris Hilton's dog, getting a good deal of screen time, survives.The Chinese are uniformly cruel inhuman automatons. The Tibetans are uniformly Highly Evolved Spiritual Beings. The whites are, as I said earlier, either idiots behaving like no human would possibly behave or pure evil who surely deserve to die along with the Roman Catholics, the Arabs, and the billions of others who aren't worthy.To give one of many examples of how idiotic and unrealistic the white humans are here, the main character finds his ex wife now seriously involved with a new guy. During the course of their escapades, the new guy dies horribly. The ex wife, not being a Highly Evolved Tibetan or soulful black, pays no mind to her lover's death but instead just flips back, without a second's hesitation, to mating up with the main character.This movie is pure propaganda and as all propaganda, it tells you more about the issuer of the propaganda than the ones targeted.
__label__1 The title of this sorry excuse for a movie should be like that..I mean after watching Curtis family survive every massive disaster milliseconds before...with making so many jokes and in script gags ( I swore I thought this was becoming a comedy towards middle while countless gigantic tragedies supposed to be going on everywhere with millions dying "The guy is an actor. He is getting paid to read a script !" ) , scientific nonsense and dismissal of laws of physics ( jumping through massive gaps on the ground with a limo ! , flying with a two propeller aircraft in front of an exploding super volcano , moving a gigantic Antonov plane between collapsing buildings and inside chasms , cell phones and global network of communications still on along with GPS and other navigational systems after Earth's magnetic poles screwed up ) , god awful leaps of logic ( hey listen and follow what every conspiracy nut says when the end is coming....They might have a map which shows our survival ) , racial and national stereotypes for dumb Americans ( "Arab sheiks and their families are not worthy of saving" implies morally superior scientist hero...WHAT ? Queen of Great Britain is leaving everyone and saving herself with her dogs , shifty fat Russian billionaire buffoons can not be trusted but hey their Paris Hilton like mistresses are hot ! ) , every disaster movie cliché crammed in ( a dysfunctional American family , dad estranged from wife and struggling with an menial job but he is a hero , her new boyfriend is a jerk to be killed , dog survives , family reunited at the end , a scientist warns everyone with a moral and ethical speech at the end and gets First Daughter , US President good decent man doing right thing always and sacrifices himself with his people....STOP STOP TOO MUCH US PATRIOTISM ALERT ) After watching all of this I went to restroom and threw up....Another case which Hollywood does not make a real production or interested with art of film making anymore but only bothered to create a PRODUCT to be consumed by idiot audience to make money....And it will make money because of the marketing campaign , CGI porn and ignorant masses. Not because script or acting means or worthy of anything. Seriously I respect John Cusack a lot. What happened to this guy ? Why he accepted leading role ? I will not even bother to discuss rest of the cast...They were all terrible one way or another ( except for little actress Lily Morgan ...She was quite talented and acted better than anyone else...Because she acted natural as she supposed to be...not like Woody Harrelson's overbearing absurd conspiracy nut mannersRoland Emmerich has only one or two script and he is using it over and over again with little changes ( except little changes names , characters events and characters are similar with "Independence Day" and "Day After Tomorrow" ) Even he has a different scrips he shows what a terrible director he is....He is just selling a CGI show and you can go to Disneyland instead and get a similar thrill in rollercoasters....
__label__1 ------------------------------------------CONTAINS HEAVY SPOILERS------------------------------------------First let me tell the good parts as there is not much of it. Awesome special effects. Roland Emmerich has surpassed well in using special effects... And, that's the only good part about this movie.The script, whoever wrote it is a complete idiot. What's with all the drama? After this movie is over this is what came to my mind about the film.Opening:-1) Sun exploded. 2) 10-15 mins of Joan Cushack with his kids. 3) Then OMG... Earthquake, everybody get in the car. 4) Car almost crashed, we're dead. No, phew! close call. 5) Am flying the plane right into the disaster and destruction. 6) OMG! plane almost crashed. We're dead. No, phew! close call. 7) OMG! Mountain exploded. Fiery ball chunk from the mountain hit the truck I'm driving. My road is sliding upwards. I'm dead. No, phew! close call. 8) OMG! I am in the truck and along with the truck I fell into the abyss. 9) Hey, I am alive and I am seeing daylight. Wait a minute. How did I get off the truck and how did I survive? 10) Plane did not take off right. And, look thick black smoke encircled us along with the plane. We're dead. No, phew! close call.11) I am in a bigger plane now. I am very close to a crashing plane. I can't lift it up. My plane is almost 85 degrees vertical. We escaped it. Phew! But no, look behind the crashing building. Another crashing building. We knocked the Eiffel Tower. And We're dead. No, phew! close call. 12) Let's go to Hawaii. But, hey where is it? And where is there lava pond in the middle of Pacific Ocean. 13) OMG! We are in total chaos and disaster. Car won't start-up. The guy sitting next to the passenger seat then says, "Car Start". And car starts (What the hell was that? Was that suppose to be a joke? Am I suppose to laugh at this?). 14) Look, I stopped the plane without crashing it. Phew! close call. But, hey no. Me and the plane fell into the abyss. I am dead. 15) Hey, lookie here. Three gigantic metal shark ships. 16) Hello, there Mt.Everest. Sorry to bump into you. Didn't see you there. Let me just pull back and get on my way. See ya. 17) Africa wasn't destroyed. Yay! me, all the continents are gone except for Africa. That's why it's called Cape Of Good. Let's go there.The End.
__label__1 Me and my girlfriend expected a lot from this movie, we obviously never expected it to be a drama masterpiece, but some nice action and hopefully a story that made somewhat sense.God were we let down, the action scenes were terrible, of course we know that the hero will make all sorts of getaway moves, but Superman ain't got nothing on this guy.The movie can pretty much be summed up with.Terrible dialouge, scene where our hero and his god annoying family get's away just 0.0001 second before it's too late, and then another awful dialouge and nonsense, after where our little superteam decides to land on the middle of what is gonna be the worlds largest volcano, they of course get's away just at the very very last second, let's not forget that a volcano cloud moves at incredible speed, however our hero can of course outrun it in a mobile home down a curvy road.This goes on and on, I stopped counting the amount of "tense" scenes after 1 hour, but it's retarded, because you know that the good guy and his family are gonna survive, it's obvious and therefore these scenes become retarded and quite boring.Heck I would have preferred the ex-wife and a kid dying once in a while, it would have given you abit of the "omg are they gonna make it?!" feeling, but it doesn't.It's an extremely boring movie, there's no "wow nice effects" we've seen it all before, acting is just horrible, of course the bad guy who just shows his loving heart at the end dies, of course our hero's ex-wifes new girlfriend dies a pretty terrible death so we're sure that he'll get his ex back, and of course she forgot everything about her just dead boyfriend 5 minutes after he's dead and starts making out with her hero "what a slut tbh" You really have a terrible taste in movies if you liked this, you gain nothing from seeing it, whatsoever.
__label__1 Well what can you say about a disaster movie when the biggest disaster is the movie it'self. I'm not even sure where to begin summing up this turd. The bad acting, the corny duologue, the endless clichés, oh yes and let's not forget the nail biting escapes.In fact there are so many nail biting escapes made by our heroes I think I will just focus on those. The trouble is i'm not sure which nail biting escape to focus on. The nail biting escape from suburbia, the nail biting escape from Yellow Stone, the nail biting escape from the airport 1, the nail biting escape from airport 2, the nail biting escape from the cargo plane, the nail biting escape from the arc.........etc,etc,etc,etc.Man what a waste of 3 hours.
__label__1 I had to comment on this movie... I am only 3/4 of the way through watching this movie and I just can't believe how much they hyped up this heap of rubbish. I've read some people on this site asking people to lighten up and like the movie for what it is but really... If it were a comedy then fair enough.. ..it's hilarious... The reason why it's important to hate this film is because these people get paid to make this rubbish and there are hundreds of film-makers out there who would kill to have the resources, money and cast that this guy had and to then produce this rubbish is an insult to these would be film makers and an insult to the audience... Worst scenes for me were the supermarket scene and then the ridiculous escape scene in the car by Cussack and family... The script was just life threateningly awful... The nonchalant acting is excusable because the actors must have realised that this was a bad slapstick comedy quite quickly so I forgive them...People who don't hate this film need to be the first to go when the world does finally end.I still have 30 minutes more to watch so maybe there are even worse scenes yet to come!
__label__1 Where to start. Basically in summary this isn't really a film, it's a collection of many poor over-the-top CGI images and sequences that aren't realistic in any way or believable. Added to that is the most corny, pointless, dull, cliché ridden soap opera scenes the world has ever been exposed to. This film is completely devoid of any realism or emotion; it's over long and completely boring and pointless. I will give just some small example of pure nonsense: Aircraft taking off just before the whole airport and area is about to be destroyed, yet the tower keeps telling the plane they are no authorised to take off!!! 2 seconds later the tower is destroy, why would they be in the tower and why would they try stopping the flight. Mobiles phone work all the time even with no land, towers or electricity for miles around. The wife, who has just been stuck on a boat for x weeks/months still has lovely make-up and new clothes on, even on a packed ship. Animals are flown in one by one, by helicopter in the open air. Not in boxes and not on trucks and not well in advance, hours before departure. Why do all planes fly 1 inch off the ground at all times, rather than bothering to actually climb over any danger.I could go on and on, this film is simply brain dead nonsense with no redeeming qualities. Even the green screen FX are awful and poorly done.
__label__1 I was really looking forward to seeing this movie because I was hoping to see all of humanity wiped out. Considering what we've done to each other and the Earth, this is the least of the many punishments we deserve.Unfortunately, we get the predictable plucky group of survivors overcoming their differences to save the human species. I didn't care for anyone in the film, and the more that died the better in my opinion.And as usual most of the action happens in America. LA is destroyed. Yawn. Vegas is destroyed. Do we care? The White House is destroyed. Yesss! But this film gets a rating of 1 for a scene that is so overtly racist it really beggars belief: on board one of the Arks, Dr Adrian Whatever is confronting his boss about how people obtained tickets to get on board, and is astounded when he's told that tickets were sold for 1 billion Euros each, 'in order to save the human species'.The camera then cuts to some (presumably rich) people walking into the Ark, and finishes with and lingers on a group of Arabs dressed in Hollywood-cliché Sheikh and Burka costumes. Dr Adrian then asks incredulously: 'This is the gene pool we want to save?'.If this had been a race other than Arabs, I wonder what people would say. There would of course be a huge outcry. This type of snide and disgusting racism is the kind of attitude that was prevalent in 1930s Germany, and look where that led to. Absolutely shocking.
__label__1 You were warned that possibly the worst movie made since The Monolith Monsters (1957) had been unleashed on the public.Almost all of the actors are unappealing. John Cusack, Woody Harrelson, and Danny Glover are not compelling actors. Cusack, as usual, plays the weary sad sack. Harrelson's attempt to channel Dennis Hopper's maniacal character in "Apocalypse Now" is embarrassing. And Danny Glover's role as the president of the United States is an insult. In his "real" life, he despises America and praises Hugo Chavez, the thug that runs Venezuela and its drug cartels. Putting that aside, Glover's pulse can hardly be measured.Child actors. Oh, if only we didn't need them. They are almost invariably portrayed as rude, contrary, and sullen. And the parents put up with it. But, never fear, by the end of the film, they are cuddly little teddy bears that have brokered a reconciliation between their estranged parents.The adult characters in this movie are not believable. They are either cads, unlikely heroes, or holy men. Adults in authority almost always have bad motives. The chief bad guy is supposed to be the president's chief of staff, Anheuser, but in reality he is the only guy that knows what he's doing and is devoted to his duty. That doesn't count much, I guess, in the prevailing culture.The story begins with some excitement, but eventually devolves into an overlong, overwrought cartoon. It's "Earthquake," "The Towering Inferno," "Krakatoa-East of Java," "The Poseidon Adventure," "The Bible," and "Airport '75" on steroids. Too many anguished characters, too many anti-heroes, too many noble savages, too many plots and subplots, no coherence, and virtual chaos.Such is what passes today for entertainment. Yes, this is a disaster movie alright, but probably not the kind of disaster the producers intended.
__label__1 Where to begin dissecting this pointless waste of film (calling it a movie would be an undeserved compliment)? I think I'll start with mutated neutrinos. Why not? One can never underestimate the danger of those. So, if you'll ever see a mutated neutrino somewhere around your neighborhood, please, call the police immediately.No, wait. This doesn't explain anything. I need to find a different approach...Ronald Emmerich – the script writer and director of 2012 – doesn't care for any of those petty and boring laws of physics he studied (or did he?) in school. Our poor old Earth has existed for 5 billion years only to be broken and CGI-reshaped at the whim of his mighty imagination. And you know what? It could be alright if Emmerich's imagination were actually half as mighty as his immense complacency.His past works (e.g. The Day After Tomorrow) were – if not terribly original – at least somewhat plausible if you turned suspense-of-disbelief mode on and remembered that it's typical Hollywood after all. But now, elated by success, he has thrown away all pretense of verisimilitude. Now neutrino act as microwaves, hydraulics that lifts massive metal gates can be blocked by a finger-thick Chinese-made plastic cable, a small propeller-driven aircraft can fly in close proximity to an erupting super-volcano (just to clarify: a single VEI-8 eruption can plunge the Earth into a volcanic winter, so your puny H-bomb pales in comparison), mobile phones continue to function just fine even when all modern infrastructure is already annihilated, and GPS navigation systems aren't rendered useless by massive miles long shifts in the Earth's crust...Such is the world of 2012. Its pieces are poorly and hastily brought together in a truly absurd, Frankenstein's manner. If Emmerich needs to justify another completely unbelievable plot twist, soapy "emotional" scene or meaningless CG destruction sequence, anything goes. And forgive me for leaving actors and their characters aside. I like Woody Harrelson, but even his brief appearance barely deserves mentioning. Others are just "reading a script", and when John Cusack actually utters these words, they sound almost like an excuse.2.5 hours of incessant brain torture that will make the coming of Apocalypse your golden dream.
__label__1 What is it about movie directors now? Do they get paid per minute of unrealistic, ridiculous and overblown special effects while completely ignoring science? The claims that mutated neutrinos could be causing the core of the earth to melt is a complete joke. In order to cause the earths core, a massive ball of iron, to melt would have required so much energy that life would have been extinguished long before the core would melt, especially in the 3 year timeline given in the film.This movie had some of the stupidest effects I have seen in a long, long time. The limo scene was beyond dumb, especially the gigantic wave following behind. As those sorts of waves travel at around 3000 metres per second or 10,800 Km per hour (around 6000 miles per hour) then I think they would have had a hard time escaping.The speed at which the buildings and the bridge they drove under collapsed was ludicrously slow.The bit with the loaded Antonov An-225 climbing like an empty airliner at an air show was laughable.A tsunami would not have produced a surface wave of the size shown in the middle of the ocean. Tsunami's travel along the bottom, only showing once the tsunami hit the continental shelves.The scene where tropical animals were being transported over a glacier, through frigid high mountain air while slung under helicopters showed that the director had not given even the slightest thought to what would happen to those animals being transported that way.Another laughable scene was the bit when whole flooded hydraulic chamber scene. Considering how high they were and the fact the waves had traveled through the high mountains, the water would have been frigid. Those people trapped in it would have died from hypothermia very quickly.The captain was not being able to start the turbines till the door is closed? Why not? And when the turbines finally started a big cloud of smoke, suggesting that the turbines were burning diesel or some other liquid fuel. Yet we are expected to believe that this fuel would last for a minimum of two months.I was almost falling of my seat laughing during the Everest collision. A multi-thousand ton behemoth like that vessel hitting Mount Everest would have caused a massive ice slide. Yet all that happened was a couple of ice blocks fell and broke a window. And later we see the front of the vessel and there is absolutely no sign that it had run into the side of a mountain.What can I say about the dialog other than how many 7 year old kids did they get to write it. The dialog was lame. The screenplay was a joke, with the good guys getting out of yet another inescapable situation at the last millisecond in the most improbable ways.Yes, the special effects were spectacular and yet it was quite clear they were there to cover up for an incredibly lame, dull and boring screenplay.I am glad I did not pay to see this joke in the cinema. I would have been demanding my money back.
__label__1 WARNING--LOTS OF SPOILERS AHEAD.I am somewhat of an aficionado of the Carol so I really looked forward to Disney's latest release. I had really hoped that Robert Zemeckis would work his magic but, unfortunately, like most adapters of the Carol he felt the need to "improve" it. What he ended up doing was somehow removing most of the warmth and humanity from Dickens' well-loved story. The movie starts by showing Scrooge removing the coins from the eyes of his late partner, Jacob Marley's, corpse. Yes, it shows that he is a miser it also shows he has no regard for, and almost contempt for, the one man in his life who was probably as close to a friend as he ever had. This scene was totally unnecessary, the story is over 150 years old, and we all KNOW that Scrooge is a stingy miser. The first part of the movie is lighted in an authentic manner giving everything a dark and gloomy look. Unfortunately this darkness pretty much negates the 3-D effect. In fact the 3-D effect is pretty much negligible throughout the film, adding little to it. The only time it is clearly in 3-D is when it is snowing and the snow seems to be landing in your lap. I will admit that Mr. Zemeckis uses much of the original dialog from the book throughout this movie but most of the action is heavily modified or totally new, and is, to anyone who is familiar with the book, intrusive and irritating. For example, in the book the door knocker changes into Marley's face and then disappears. Here it not only appears but also screams in Scrooge's face causing him to fall down the front steps.When Marley enters the room he doesn't just enter the room, he throws several of the heavy boxes he is chained to through the door first.When the ghost of Christmas Past appears he looks like a candle and his head is, in fact, a candle flame floating above his body. At the end of this session Scrooge jams the candle-snuffer over the ghost's head just as in the book. Unlike the book he holds on to the snuffer and it suddenly blasts off like a rocket taking him high into the sky, then disintegrates and leaves him flying. He sails past the face of the moon in a scene reminiscent of E.T.s famous scene then falls seemingly miles toward the ground before waking up on the floor beside his bed. The whole segment is gratuitous and, quite frankly, childish. When the Ghost of Christmas Present appears the ceiling in Scrooge's room is suddenly about 50 feet high. The Ghost looks exactly like Jim Carrey except with a beard and his expressions are the same smirking expressions that Carrey usually displays making the Ghost, at least to me, very unpleasant. One of the things that made this segment so important in the book was that the Ghost took Scrooge around London and let him mingle with the people (albeit invisibly) to get a feel of the holiday spirit. Here, the Ghost apparently lifts the upper story from Scrooge's house and they fly around the city in it. Part of the floor becomes transparent and Scrooge observes everything as if on a television screen. Yes, he sees what's going on but, he does not mingle and there is no feeling of his gaining humanity. At the end of this segment the Ghost says that he only lives for one season and abruptly ages, dies (while still laughing Ho, Ho, Ho) rots and turns into a skeleton, then disintegrates into dust and blows away.The Ghost of Christmas Yet To Come segment is, quite frankly, very frightening. Unlike most versions of the Carol the Ghost is mostly shown only in the shadow and becomes solid only rarely. There is a long segment which I found to be not only frightening to a younger child but totally outside the spirit of the book, gratuitous, and frankly stupid. The Phantom Hearse, mentioned only briefly in the book, chases a terrified Scrooge for what seems like miles. For some unexplained reason Scrooge suddenly shrinks until he is smaller than a mouse, he slides along a rooftop smashing into icicles, then falls off the roof and lands in the bag of the charwoman, Mrs. Dilber, who is taking Scrooge's belongings to sell. Scrooge witnesses her total lack of feeling for him and is aghast at how easily she stole things from him, still not realizing that in this future he is dead. In the graveyard scene Scrooge, who is now again full size, is understandably terrified and, as in several other versions, he falls into his own open grave and he, and the audience, realizes that it ends in Hell. He is, of course, saved and reformed in the end but the feeling is not that he was reformed so much because of what he learned as that he is frightened into it. Throughout the movie Scrooge is thrown, launched, battered and generally physically abused for no apparent purpose and with no apparent damage. The ghosts, up to and including Marley, do not seem to be the friendly, helpful and caring spirits of the book but seem, instead, to be enjoying making Scrooge suffer rather than helping him to learn. Overall I found the movie to be cold, depressing and one of the least satisfying versions of A Christmas Carol that I have ever seen. I own more than 20 different versions of this story on tape and DVD. This version will NOT be part of my collection.
__label__1 This adaptation of the classic Dicken's novel "A Christmas Carol" has enraged me so much I am writing this review as I'm watching the film. It is absolutely terrible! the ghosts are completely misrepresented and the story is so disjointed you cant follow the story properly. It is far too dramatic in some places while rather silly in others. Considering the budget and cast, I am really disappointed, as I was hoping to see some of the Disney magic we all know and love, while showing one of my favourite Christmas books in a great film adaptation. This is no where near the case. It saddens me to think that the future generations of children will be watching this and thinking this is how the story really is. I recommend Patrick Stewart's version, or my personal favourite - Muppet's Christmas Carol - which has the right amount of child-friendly humour while still portraying the story well.
__label__1 Robert Zemeckis' "Christmas Carol" is a big, bloated, ugly, tone-deaf monster that stomps all the magic out of Dickens' classic. It is nowhere near as good as the two best versions: the black-and-white, 1951, Alistair Sim "Scrooge," or the simple yet amazingly evocative animated, 1962 "Mr. Magoo's Christmas Carol." If you've got young children, please don't take them to this movie. There are scenes of ghosts and demons that might frighten a youngster.This is more of a Zemeckis film than a Disney one, or an adaption of Dickens' classic. It's got the same odd cold heart as "Polar Express" and the same theme park ride feel of "Back to the Future." Bigger is definitely better to this guy, so he gives Scrooge a house with fifty-foot ceilings and a staircase that goes on forever, but never does anything interesting with that bloated staircase and never makes those fifty feet necessary.Dickens' "Christmas Carol" is chock full of poignant moments, but those moments never came to life for me in this movie till the final scene where Scrooge carries Tiny Tim on his shoulders. Had this been my only version of "Christmas Carol," I never would have understood the heartbreaking nature of Scrooge's lonely childhood, his broken engagement, or his estrangement from his nephew.Finally, this version is very hard to look at. Scrooge is very, very ugly. You actually have close up views of the cavities in his obviously rotting teeth. His chin and nose are grotesque and his flesh is rendered as sagging, greasy, and full of pores. London is always dark; smoke pours from chimneys; streets are deserted. I didn't believe those lifeless streets. They didn't feel spooky; they just felt conspicuous for the absence of people and street lamps. If Zemeckis really wants to make a film that makes use of darkness, he needs to watch German expressionism and film noir.
__label__1 The movie feels like it was written by a ten year old girl hooked on drugs. Cardboard characters are so undeveloped that they should have stayed in authors womb for few more months/years. Bad acting and "I don't care about what is going on" attitude from the actors brings final nail to this movie coffin. There is nothing substantial in this movie, nothing that can teach us something new about ourselves or the world around us, which is quite odd for the science fiction movie. True the cinematography of the movie is first class, but it only saddens me that it is used on such bad material. In the end don't get fooled by this movie. Its only purpose is to take your money with bright lights and a false promise, but it will leave you with a mouth full of ash, wondering why you wasted your time.
__label__1 This film is bad. You'd think after the total disaster of John Carter (on Mars) someone somewhere would learn that if you take sci-fi and just throw millions and millions and millions of dollars at it is will just be rubbish. And by god is this rubbish. (It's worse than that Jim, It's s, h, i and t). This film is so bad I just don't know where to start. Hang on - I'm going to have a cup of tea and a think. OK. It has no redeeming qualities at all. The film, not the tea, The story is so badly written that I was just sighing to myself every five minutes. It basically goes like this: Large bit of exposition explaining what they are going to do next then they go and do what they were saying there were going to do in a huge amount of silly CGI. We have seen so many action scenes that we all know anything can be done, but we need to have a vested interest in at least one of the characters to give a damn whether they live or die, and in this whole movie I couldn't care less if everyone died. The tone of the film is perplexing. In the first few minutes this bloke is shot dead for no reason. Then the main character is born at sea under a particular constellation pertaining to something to do with astrology, but this is never mentioned again. Then there is a woman in her knickers and bra for some reason. Don't know why. Then Jupiter Jones leaves the earth then she's a queen and we are suddenly in Terry Gilliam's Brazil, complete with Central Services and a cameo from TG himself. (Naughty Terry). The Wachowski directors have just stolen from FLASH, DUNE, BRAZIL, 2000AD and any other Sci-Fi source they can find. There is even a 2001 space station in one shot. They have proved over the last four films that they have got nothing left to say at all. The film is so Flash Gordon there is even a forced wedding scene with the hero Flash turning up on a space scooter and crashing in at the right moment, oh sorry he's not Flash, he's – I don't know or care, because I've lost the will to live, because there is no suspense and there is no logic to anything. Then not-Flash rescues not-Dale and we have to go through the whole thing again, but this time Ming, sorry, some bloke I never got the name of - who has got a very sore throat and serious Oedipus issues and played by the unfortunate Eddie Redmayne (I bet he wishes he'd got his BAFTA earlier and not had to endure this pile of steaming llamas plop) needs Not-Dale to put her royal seal on a document so he can own Earth, and she has to abdicate, without doing anything of any use whilst being Queen, how about a few edicts? I'd at least ask to see the Royal Mint and get some coins done we me on them. But no. Not-Dale goes off without even a ray gun to see the baddest man in the universe and right at the last minute not-Flash hurtles in and saves the day on another space scooter thing. (His insurance premiums must be astronomical), And of course because he's broken the window at the top of the factory, the whole place is going to go up. I don't know about you, but if I was going to build some sort of factory in the middle of Jupiter where the atmosphere is incredibly fierce, the gravity is gigantic, the electrical storms are the size of EARTH, I would build some sort of fail safe and make certain that if some twit with a space scooter crashed into my big window the whole place wouldn't disintegrate with the speed of the Titanic hitting a massive iceberg. And the baddie dies falling off a tall thing. OMG!! How many bad guys have to die falling off tall things? At least Ming got a big rocket ship through his guts. If I was a bad guy I'd live in a bungalow.Then some space people who were bad, but then good and then bad who may be friends with Sean Bean do some stuff and are then good people, but then they nip off, but luckily just in time to save Not-Flash and Not-Dale and oh, for Heaven's sake. I don't care I really don't. And then they are back on Earth. Sorry? What? She's the queen of the flipping universe and can do anything and she goes back to cleaning the toilets? Can you IMAGINE how angry her hard working mother would be if she knew her daughter was the heiress to billions and she wasn't doing anything with it? Why the hell do you think she left Russia to go to the USA? In search of a new life! Not to clean toilets! And the Not-Flash bloke has got wings at the end, Oh for sake of Peter Jackson is this Lord of the Rings? He's even got Vulcan Elf ears!! Is there no originality AT ALL in this movie??? Come on!! Couldn't he have had a penis in the middle of his forehead to indicate he was an alien. Oh? He has got one of those? Sorry didn't notice. And they all speak perfect English and apparently the Earth was seeded with genes from, Oh I don't care, I just couldn't care less anymore, this is awful, and I've run out of tea. And there's some big sci-fi Lizards with wings called Mr. flipping Ben or something. SIGH. There was one nice shot of the planet Jupiter with all the moons around it in 3D that I did quite like, but that was nothing to do with the W Brothers - that's actually there.
__label__1 Guys, this movie was a joke It seems like they took all the extra costumes from 'Flash Gordon', 'CG from any Transformer movie, "screenwriting" from 'The Last Starfighter', and character development for 'Gigli' and overall logic from 'The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai across the 8th Dimension' and put them together!Basic breakdownAct I. Kidnap + Rescue + Channing Tatum on magic roller-skates + Redmayne OveractingAct II. Kidnap + Rescue + Channing Tatum on magic roller-skates + Redmayne OveractingAct III. Kidnap + Rescue + Mila Kunis on magic roller-skates
__label__1 This was easily one of the worst movies I have ever been to. What else can be said. Everything about it was just awful. And I went in knowing it was going to be a terrible story, but maybe I would enjoy the special effects and action scenes. Unfortunately, a man-dog wearing eyeliner roller skating in the air fighting bad guys looks as ridiculous and dumb as it sounds. Mila Kunis felt completely miscast and had no chemistry with Channing Tatum, who was playing the same boring dumb hero he always does. The action sequences were a mess... impossible to tell what was going on.I watch a lot of movies and have only walked out on a handful in my life, but I could not make it through more than 70 minutes of this ridiculous film. Don't waste your time. It's awful.It boggles my mind how a movie like this gets made. Someone please stop these two from making any more!
__label__1 The Brothers are no longer, and their films are getting worse by the movie. This drivel is supposed to be about a wretched anglo-Russian girl (Kunis) who miraculously has the same genetic imprint as a millennia-old royal just dead in outer space. The royal was part of a family looking for profit from creating life on suitable planets which are then farmed for their body fluids to produce immortal bath salts for those who can pay. Cra* concept and an even worse script, direction, and character development has resulted! It is all CGI, but for what? The characters are totally uninteresting. Even the evil offspring of the dead royal, who just ooze 'orribleness and are of course played by British actors (including star of the moment Eddie Redmayne!), are one-dimensional. The hero, half wolf, half man, Channing Tatum, remains stony faced and just jets about on a set of gravity boots better than Superman! The only interest is Sean Bean and whether he will last beyond the second reel. From the trailer he looked certain for an early demise but he keeps hanging on! The script is just a series of bang crashes, and scenes of jeopardy for our two leads and how are they going to get out of them - yawn, yawn! The CGI is boring inside two minutes. And the whole film is a derivative sham. You will recognise 'Star Wars' 'North by North West' 'Jurassic Park 2' 'Superman' 'Flash Gordon' and particularly 'Dune' as well as many others. Oh, it is truly awful!!!!!!!!!!Brother and sister - give up film making now and save the industry from another mega ($170M) flop!
__label__1 I don't remember the last time I went to a movie, and almost walked out in the first 5 minutes to ask for a refund. That is how quickly I sensed I was in a disaster.I usually enjoy sci-fi movies and don't nitpick them to death. I'm used to being let down by the likes of Green Lantern and John Carter, and still finding them adequately entertaining.However, this was some convoluted mess. It seemed slapped together. The soundtrack seemed like some stock hack job. Characters were not developed at all. Stuff randomly jumped around. The "universe" seemed inconsistent, incoherent, and generally muddled. This just outright hurt to sit through. I gave it a chance, but it didn't get better. I tried wondering if I'd have liked it if it was my first movie, and I was maybe 12. No, I don't think so.Anyway, this is now at the top of my Razzie list for at least the last couple decades. I've seen a *lot* of movies. Though I'd normally rather watch Mila Kunis for two hours over John Travolta in weird space dreadlocks... I think I'd rather watch Battlefield Earth again over this... thing. Wow. This was really really really bad. It's not even worthy of Showgirls-like cult status. This one should have people mocking it for at least a generation. Especially the ears.
__label__1 How, in this modern day, with such high standards of education and courses on script writing and film making, can a big budget film like this one be so bad? It was only because we watched in it Gold Class, in comfortable seats and with food service, that we didn't walk out.After about fifteen minutes my partner leaned over to me and asked when anything was going to happen (in the movie that is). I couldn't help her.In fact my seat was so comfortable, and the movie so bad, that I fell asleep three times.When my partner told me she thought this was the worst movie ever, and that she was confused, I couldn't help her again - I'd been asleep.I did however witness the butterfly land on Jane's shoulder, then fly off. What a beautiful CGI scene. Totally irrelevant to the plot or story, and I'm still not sure why it was included.Then there was the scene when giant ostriches nearly trample Tarzan and his mate. At last, I thought, something is going to happen. Tarzan's mate asks Tarzan what did the Ostrich say. Tarzan replies something like - "The Ostrich is telling you it can trample you." And then, the Ostriches run off. That's the last we see of them. Confused? I was.The writers and director don't know whether Tarzan is Spider Man, Batman or some other action hero - but he certainly isn't Tarzan.The poor old apes get a very bad rap here. They are huge, aggressive monsters with razor sharp teeth.This movie is a showcase of when bad script writing, bad directing and masses of CGI meet.I can only recommend this film to people watching it on late night TV, when they need to be put to sleep.What would Tarzan say about this movie: AwwwwwwOaaaaaaaaWhaaaaaaOn a side note, it is interesting to see that people that rate this movie high, usually have only one review in their list - this one. This usually means that they have some connection to the film.(Edit 2 days later) I rest my case. After posting this review, 6 positive reviews have been posted after mine, all saying this is the greatest movie ever, and 4 of the reviewers have only 1 review to their name - this movie, and the other two reviewers have 2 reviews to their name. With a ratio of 6 biased reviews to 1 honest review, no wonder it is getting so hard to trust the IMDb rating system anymore.
__label__1 Really one of the top ten worst films I've seen in my life. The plot was paper thin, if there was a plot at all. I knew going into this that it was going to be mostly about the digital gorillas, the babe, and the hunk. What I didn't expect was the flimsy dialogue, scenes unconnected to the "plot" and such miserable drivel coming out of the mouths of the actors. I was also surprised by the pseudo environmentalist doctrine they weave into the plot. The babe is being taken away by the bad guys to her death and the only thing she can say is, "Promise me you wont hurt the animals." Really? The best line in the movie is when the black guy says, "Can we just stop this?" My sentiments exactly. The overly sensitive, crying, cannibal warlord was a bit too much.
__label__1 I'm not sure what I've just watched, and trust me, only the freezing cold NZ winter day could have kept me inside watching this dross. Oh, and Alexander Skarsgard's chest. I admit that. Where do I start? I get that we've moved into a world where everything white and male is bad, and everything black and female is good, but seriously? Trying to squeeze the Tarzan legend into that narrative as well? Why not write your own damn stories and leave ones like this in the past. So, we have every single non-white person heroic; every single white person psychopathic (except Tarzan, of course. Even Hollywood can't write the narrative which puts Samuel L Jackson into the actual Tarzan role. Yet). I resent having to pay for this ludicrous propaganda. I studied African history for my degree. Where do you think the slave trade originated? Who stopped it? Yeah, go do some research and answer those questions for yourself. I think at the end of this movie (I don't care if there are spoilers ahead; this film is THAT bad) Tarzan and Jane have opted to stay in a squalid African hut to have their baby because, ya know, who'd want a huge manor house in England with servants and hygiene? I give up. This film makes me want to stop watching movies.
__label__1 The latest installment of children's lit - turned movie is the weakest. The green-screen use is laughable: for example, when standing on a hilltop, next to an animal whose fur is blowing in the wind, we see a too-close shot of the children, whose improperly-lit hair is standing PERFECTLY still... on a hilltop. The CG backgrounds are not detailed and very plain (hill, trees, no movement).Also, these children could not act, I hate to say it. Emotions, no. Excitement, no. Holding a sword like a human being, no.The pacing was somehow both too slow AND too fast. There were plenty of dead-air moments that failed to create suspense (people in my theater were snoring, getting up a lot, getting restless), and slow-mo of poorly CG'd battle, but the storyline development (or total lack thereof) was skipped over, pushed ahead, and seemed to take a back seat to the action (as is the formula for modern CD-heavy kids movies).The gore in the animal cruelty of sacrificing the Lion in a strangely pagan-esquire midnight ritual (I somehow didn't picture it like that as a kid reading the book) was beyond a PG depiction, (despite the cut away for the stab, and lack of blood anywhere) and gratuitous, smacking of The Passion of the Christ... but I guess that's exactly what they were going for.I guess as long as a movie doesn't show blood, body parts, or swear words, it doesn't go over PG, despite graphic depictions of pagan sacrifice, animal abuse, creepy cyclops and other humanoids, large-scale warfare, stabbings, beatings, and such.I'm no prude, it is a children's book -- but reading topics is less intense than seeing them graphically depicted on a big-screen, enough for maybe a 13?The storyline is so very simple - find wonderland, set off human alarm, Savior sacrifices himself for you and resurrects, win war against evil Christmas-hating witch. 4 steps. 3 hours to tell? It just isn't as complex as LOTR or even the better Harry Potters. That's why the pacing felt so slow.Had the characters been rounded out (one can interpret a book when making it into a movie, but nobody told Disney this) - it might have been better. If Judas, I mean Edmund, had been explored -- why was he so impudent? Did he really have fantasies of being King? Did he learn a lesson, or just go on/off from traitor to Witch-fighter? Any of these could've been explored instead of the dead-air treatment I watched.
__label__1 Wait a minute.. just wait a minute...A bloke with superpowers does a lot of damage.. sees the light.. tries to be a good bloke in Poland.. tries to help someone.. gets found out.. wife and kid are efficiently skewered by a single arrow.. he gets all moody and turns into a bad bloke...Then.. this bad bloke with boiling blood.. murders millions of people .. MILLIONS .. as he redesigns planet Earth by uprooting thousand of buildings and crushing MILLIONS of poor saps stuck between the basement and the penthouse.Then he has a change of heart and becomes a good bloke again.. and the other good bloke says... 'See.. I knew you had a nice side'Then he walks away with a fetching Irish grin.The wailing of the MILLIONS of bereaved seem to go unheard.Rubbish.
__label__1 This movie is astoundingly terrible. The first 45 minutes of the film feel like bad long exposition and yet nothing really happens, a mutant appears in some random scene and they are recruited by either Apocalypse or the X-Men. The writing is all over the place and we don't get to know the characters, they're simply put there.Because Bryan Singer is in love wit Stryker of course we get to see the Weapon X program (again!) and of course, Wolverine because why not.As for the characters: Magneto barely does anything in the whole movie, Apocalypse is a one note villain, Xavier phoned it in and Jennifer Lawrence was NOT Mystique at all, as expected she played Raven Everdeen.Finally, the big battle comes and nothing really happened, the world is being destroyed and the governments sit quiet. SPOILER ALERT! And the way they defeat Apocalypse is by combining all their powers, just like in FANTASTIC FOUR (2005) or even FANT4STIC (2015).This movie has NO SOUL whatsoever, boring, badly acted, awful written, the worst movie of the year so far.
__label__1 I loved the Apocalypse storyline of the 90s animated series so I was pretty stoked about the idea of a movie centering around the Apocalypse character, it's a shame I have to live with it now.The new cast can't seem to hold up a movie on their own, McAvoy is a huge miscast 3 movies later, Fassbender struggles to hold up the movie. It seems like their veteran counterparts did most of the work these past couple of films.Apocalypse is terrible, I had reservations about him before, but you can tell they didn't know where to go with him or how to handle him so they kinda just piggybacked off of stargate. There's this strange pedo-like relationship he has with his younger horsemen. The wolverine cameo was so forced and out of place you'd think this were a superhero spoof movie.There's a random scene where the new gang of mutants goes to the movies and jean literally says "At least we can agree on one thing: the third movie is always the worst" and it cuts back to the movie. The scene literally has nothing to do with the rest of the story its just spliced in there for some reason.Which begs me to question whether the cast knew how terrible it was and just did not care.
__label__1 What the hell is going on..! Let's just be honest..First we were so excited to see the movie then we realized that we just waste our money and time!The Plot is just not well written!The first 20 mints of the movie were good and would raise your hope.. But then you will lose you internist and attention as the events pass by separably and boringly.. Sophie Turner just screw it up with her unauthentic act..Conclusion: Over dramatic,cheesy,very over rated and the plot is very disappointing!
__label__1 They ruined all x-men movies you ever seen I saw all X-Men movies, i am fan of X-men, BUT this one was really awful. I can't even know how to describe this crap. Can't believe this movie was 2.5 hours film that was actually got into production. Its an insult of xmen movies. Its a Power Rangers movie not X-Men.First of all, Script is just awful. "Oh good to see you" - "long time, where you'v been" - and lets hug for 15 minutes and say how good to see each and one of them, like you are watching some kind of TV series like Friends or somethin'.Second: If you want to go and watch x-men crazy fight scene movie, you will end up with super power guys use there super power to mimic the fight at the end of the movie. All fights are 20 minutes + - of almost 3 hour film. Magneto do nothing in this movie, even in final fight scene, he is up in the Air and thats really it. Everything looks cheap plastic, there is a moment that they are on hill and guess what, its like someone make a polish on this hill, its looks so cheap you can't believe it. You fill the Studio...Third: all this movie was like made up for a sake of movie. You wont see a Mystique for a long in this movie, She decide tolook a like a girl (Jennifer Lawrence)... Or The budget for CGI was not enough.Fourth: Logan / Wolverine - Hey ))) he is there for 1 minute. yep that what you will got. 1 awful minute that he is running. He is in this film just for saying that he was there. Nothing added to the film from his appearance. Fifth: i can understand that they want a new crew and remake all this thing, but guys, from good x-men movie, it becomes some superhero mess.It was just unnecessary movie. They ruined all x-men movies you ever seen Storyline is just for kids Channel. Anyway, i just felt so disappointed they just ruined it. thats it.
__label__1 Movie was so boring I wanted to walk out of the movie cinema. Usual lets bring bad guy back, find some other bad guys, destroy the world with mind numbing blah. No twists. No nothing. Predictable trash. The first hour was the concept of "Hi" "Hello" and we are bringing the band back together.Jean Grey(Stark) was miscast. Why was she in this movie? The acting was poor. And of course Ms. Jennifer Lawrence giving me a Hunger games weak speech at the end. Jennifer Lawrence is not even that talented of an actress but Hollywood is trying so hard with her. She hardly does anything in this movie and just says, "fight" over and over. Raven didn't even do anything."Magneto, you're not bad, you're good" from Prof. X. I'm thinking, "Yes, I have the point". I wish Magneto woulda zapped a coin threw my head at this point. The final scene had him floating for a half hour wondering if he should fight. WTF He did nothing. Or and the fantastic four combine their powers to defeat this stargate joke. I do not recommend. Anyone that said they liked it doesn't know anything about quality. I did like the other two xmen before this. Mostly, "Days of future Past". This is as disappointing as "Indiana Jones and the Crystal Skull". If you do decide to see this movie, I already feel sorry for you. Just give me your 10$ and I just saved almost 3 hours of your life. It was bad...
__label__1 when I heard Bryan Singer was going to direct this movie I was hoping an praying he was gonna do good job, after making a pigs ear of the first two x-men movies. Clearly he still hasn't learnt his lesson, This movie was crap, I JUST SPENT £25 at the cinema and it was a waste man!! We have now had six x-men movies out and still no bloody good story line, still no full x-men team, (which should be, Professor x, Cyclops, Storm, Wolverine, Rouge, Gambit, Beast, and sweet little Jubilee) there's not enough action through out the movie, and this one really gets on my tits, NO DAM COSTUMES! I don't get it, all the other characters in the marvel movies has there original costumes! but in x-men there are dressed in black and look like bikers.If someone is going to make a good x-men movie they should start by watching the 1990s x-men cartoons and use that as a base to build on. I'm sorry to say but I will NOT going back to the cinema to watch another x-men movie again an till someone can prove to me they know what they are doing because at the moment this is a disgrace.
__label__1 I was excited to see this movie, especially since I had never seen a 3D animated feature before. However, I ended up walking out of the theater when the movie was about two-thirds over. The plot was entirely cliché (wow, Derrick is a selfish jerk who rejects Susan once she's a monster? But Susan actually enjoys being a monster? Didn't see that coming!) and the characters were just as one-dimensional (Susan herself was a stereotypical "sweet" female protagonist who--after being predictably rejected by her love--finds new power and independence in herself, hurray! And her friends all fit into the typical, "sidekick" frames; you have the mad scientist, the arrogant tough guy, and the dumb, likable comic relief.) Nothing pushed the boundaries here; it was all based on tired clichés and poor, lazy executions of them, including the humor: trite, contrived, unfunny, and failed attempts at being hip and modern and unexpected, catering to that weird demographic of people that most animated movies tend to cater to nowadays...not sure quite what it is, average American parents that they know will be dragged to the movie? It's as if they are trying to find the most "adult" gags that they can place in a kid-oriented film to get adults laughing "in spite of themselves", even though the gags are aimed towards them in the first place, instead of finding gags that are natural, flow with the story and characters, and appeal to a broad range of ages. And supposedly the 3D animation was innovative for its field, but I found it underwhelming...only a few parts were enhanced by the 3D animation.Overall, it's not the worst animated film I've seen, but it has barely any (if any) redeeming factors, so it still gets a rating of 1/10 from me.
__label__1 Hugo is a beautifully made movie with great 3D effects. Yet with the misleading advertising, the story that goes nowhere, and with over 2 hour runtime it is one hell of a boring movie.Please do not believe 8.3 IMDb and 94% RT ratings, this movie one of the most overrated movies in the history of the film, the word 'history' is the key one here. When everything is said and done Hugo reveals itself as nothing but a cleverly disguised homage to one of the French pioneering movie directors, a subject interesting primarily for the movie history buffs.As I said Hugo is hugely misrepresented in advertising. Every poster tells you that some Narnia type adventure is awaiting you. All the trailers were masterfully crafted to leave you with expectation of magical miracle. The words like 'quest' and 'mystery' are a part of Hugo's brief description on each and every site, just read what it says on IMDb. Furthermore the word "adventure" is lavishly sprinkled throughout the Hugo's first part. And yes, great Martin Scorsese is behind all of it, so what should you expect but a magical adventure on a grandeur scale ? Sorry, you will get none of that. Yes, Hugo is like a charming 3D French postcard, but its not worth looking at for over 2 hours. 3D effects are well done, yet absolutely not required for this story that never leaves the setting of Paris train station.While plot has some holes, the elephant in the room is that pretty much nothing happens in the movie with all these mechanical dolls, golden keys, and the visually rich Dickensian atmosphere. And be sure, there is absolutely no magic, or any type of adventure hidden here.I am giving Hugo just one star to counter misleading ads and all those hypists that ether work for the studio, or easily hypnotized by big director's name. Please have few good games on your smartphone and bring a thermos with coffee if you decide to go see this snoozefest, you will need it.
__label__1 I was frankly stunned at how BAD this movie is. The 3D is very well done, but like all the clockwork and machines the movie revels in, "Hugo" is technically brilliant, moves like an elegant automaton, and has NO heart or soul. It is dead and hollow within.The "plot" is confusing, the script seems to be more dictated over a cell phone than written, the lead character looks like an animated corpse, and it is DULL, DULL, DULL, DULL, DULL. My boyfriend actually fell asleep. It is terrible that a technique such as 3D seems to have totally eliminated the need for a decent plot, script, characters, motivation and some essence of believability. Scorsese also has to re-learn the use of editing as the movie is too long by at least a half hour, and the pace limps slower than the villainous station cop's leg.The acting was competent except for Sacha Baron Cohen who is nearly unwatchable as the aforementioned gendarme - if he would only get a wooden leg it would match the rest of his performance.The "plot" manipulates emotions rather than inspires them, and is unbelievably pedantic. It's like watching Scorsese lecture a Film 101 class. ***SPOILER?*** I could not believe the scene in the library where the children actually PULL OUT A BOOK and start lecturing the audience about the history of movies up to that point. Stunningly awful.The great irony is that George Melies made FAR FAR FAR greater movies, even with his limited technology than this putrid piece of dreck. "Hugo" is a shameful waste of $170 million dollars. The Melies clips are the ONLY part of this debacle that have life, art, wit, color, and are actually entertaining.PULEEEZZZZZ....Marty....put down the camera for GOOD, and stay in the lecture hall. You have lost the ability to make captivating, interesting movies that speak to normal, living people. If you want to make a movie about Melies, or educate the audience....make a documentary.
__label__1 A movie about the silent film industry with an automaton set in a train  station? Sounds good doesn't it. This was a movie with potential, but  it fell short so much so that I'm not going to waste my time giving it  a detailed, complete critique. So here's the bullet points: The  transitions were horrendous. The scenes jumped so much that half the  time i didn't know where the characters were or where they were going.  The boy who played Hugo was terrible. He was hired for his blue-sad eye  stare. That was it, no range of emotion past the stare.  The Station Inspector was a strange character. When you make an injured  war veteran the comic relief (not in a heartwarming way, but a feels  awkward to laugh at his injury sort of way) there's something wrong.  Pitiable and sad to hear others in the theater laugh at him.  The dialog was vapid and moronic. "Everything has a purpose in life...  even machines". Well ya, machines have a purpose otherwise we wouldn't  bother having them!! I could bury myself with all the plot holes in  this movie. Nuf said.  Overall no heart to the story. I can't waste anymore time reviewing  this disappointing movie. Bottom line: Don't bother.
__label__1 I won't add more insults -- others here have done that well enough. This movie is godawful. But I will point out two areas that seem to be staples of bad movie remakes of beloved old TV shows. First, how about getting someone to write/direct that actually liked and understood the original? That person would understand that the West-Gordon relationship was the core. In a sense, West and Gordon complimented each other to make a slick, functional crime-fighting machine: West handled the action and romance, and Gordon took care of the thinking, deception, and humor (disguises). This was a well-used TV convention -- think the Kirk-Spock-McCoy triad in Star Trek, or the great contrasty chemistry between Bill Cosby and Robert Culp in I Spy. Add a lovable villain to the mix (not an offensive atrocity like the film-Loveless) and you've got a crazy, tongue-in-cheek action classic. The filmmakers here seemingly did not know or care about the fundamentals of the original show. Not that this is necessarily a problem, but then why bother resurrecting the premise in the first place? Why not just make Will Smith a different wild west troubleshooter? The Mission Impossible franchise has the same problem.Second, why all the emphasis on showing the principals getting to know each other? I know -- because it eats up 30% of the script, and creates conflict. But the conflict should be between West and the villain. Jim and Artie should just BE. The TV show didn't bother explaining how West met and knew Gordon, any more than Barney Miller, Mission Impossible, or 24 found it necessary to have all the main characters meet and learn to work together. They were a team with a job to do. Audiences understand this concept; having a trumped-up plot about how the heroes meet and overcome their differences is a hackneyed device that only exposes the script weaknesses present. See the film version of Dragnet (a better film, though) for another example of this unfortunate trend.Finally, a comment on the "race" issue. Inserting content that justifies Smith-West's skin color is no more necessary than explaining Henry V's skin color when Laurence Fishburne or Andre Braugher play him on stage. Indeed, ignoring Smith's race in a movie like this one would help us all look past such issues. If a blond actor had portrayed West, nobody would have suggested a plot that explains his Norwegian background! He just would have been West, and that would be that. But color-blind casting requires courage, and could conceivably cut into the film's bottom line. So, not in this spineless script.I seldom get mad at movies I don't like. Even The Avengers didn't anger me, though it was possibly even worse than this one. This one ticked me off REAL good. Buy the original series on DVD instead, and see how it's done right.
__label__1 Buried in this god-awful disaster of a movie is a germ of an inkling of an iota of a great idea. It is not the idea of making a big blockbuster out of the great old 1960s TV show "The Wild Wild West," an idea which can, at best, be described as tiresomely uninspired. Nor is there brilliance in transforming the image of the lead character just so that they could build the role around star-of-the-moment Will Smith. But out of that horribly perverse example of Hollywood commercial packaging there is an intriguing premise, which naturally seems to have slipped past all involved without a second glance. What if the best, brightest and most intrepid government agent working in post-Civil War America was, indeed, a black man? Realistically, how would an African-American, functioning in a repressive, racist society, where even the most liberal thinker would see him as a second-class citizen, indeed, a second class human being, be able to not only outsmart the bad guys, but to impress even the skeptical good guys? It is an intriguing idea because, on the one hand, such an agent would not be suspected of being a threat and, on the other hand, he would have to overcome so many more barriers than a white man would ever face. He would be both invisible and yet stand out like the proverbial sore thumb just about anywhere he went. He'd be constantly fighting two battles. Such a film could be thrilling and funny, yet something rare: original."The Wild Wild West" TV show itself was all those things: it was highly derivative of both the traditional western and the then-fresh James Bond-style spy movie -- with more than a little bit of Batman-style comic book campiness kicked in -- yet it was ingenious in the way it melded those mythic genres into a one-of-a-kind series. There was never anything quite like "The Wild Wild West" and never anything since -- including this disastrous 1997 movie.Everything about WILD WILD WEST, the movie, is just plain bad: tacky special effects; clumsy direction; an embarrassing screenplay; plus a fine, bewildered cast wasted in totally unworkable roles. But as bad as everything else is, the base rot of WWW goes directly to its reworked premise. No matter how open minded one might be, or how much one prides oneself on being socially color blind, there is just no way to honestly accept replacing Robert Conrad, TV's James West, with Will Smith. The time and the place dictate that James West be a white male -- unless, the filmmakers acknowledge and embrace the incongruity and use it for a real purpose.Yet, the filmmakers want it both ways: the audience is expected to be able to ignore Smith's skin color, while at the same time the entire plot is based on his confrontation with a white racist trying to reestablish Confederate power and seize control of the U.S. government. How can you respect or believe in a film or filmmakers that get all preachy about the evils of racism while all along dealing with the issue with absolutely no respect for historical honesty? It is not clear if having Smith play James West as a cocky, street smart, John Shaft-style character was intended to be a joke, social commentary or just absurd politically correct pandering to black audiences, but it is clear that it does not work. The most outrageously unbelievable thing about WILD WILD WEST is not the wildly improbable sci-fi inventions but that the Smith character actually makes it to the end of the film without being lynched. It's not that the anachronism of a cocksure 20th century black man confronting 19th century bigotry isn't workable, because that very time-warp racial comedy had already been done with much greater success in the Mel Brooks classic, BLAZING SADDLES. Unlike WWW, Brooks and company realized the sheer idiocy of the premise, yet used that to mock both the black and the white stereotypes with equal glee.Where BLAZING SADDLES is an honest farce, WILD WILD WEST is dishonest and cowardly. All involved probably thought they were being pretty daring by flaunting convention and hiring Smith, but they did not hire Will Smith the African American, they hired Will Smith the action hero movie star. They built WILD WILD WEST around Smith's race, but only to exploit his contemporary Hollywood image, even to the point of letting him create and perform a totally inappropriate (and totally bad) rap song at the end. You can sense the film exploiting both Smith's star image and his race, while not wishing to risk challenging either. The film tries to reinvent "The Wild Wild West" TV show, but the changes are literally skin deep. To really explore and compare racism in America by blending the attitudes of two different American centuries would have been too wild wild of an idea for these timid timid filmmakers.
__label__1 If you are going to make a movie based on a much loved TV show have some respect for the show,this movie has none.It takes a show that on the whole was not that bad and turns it into a really bad joke.Will Smith as James West?! James West is supposed to be a western James Bond is there an Actor that looks less like a western James Bond then Will Smith.He was only cast because of his name power at the time and it show he is not ever trying in this movie,he just keeps yelling his lines at the screen.The rest of the cast is so awful i don't even want to talk about them. The thing that makes it worse is that they have all done good work in the past that is good but here they don't even seem to be trying.Then there is the direction. Has there ever been a more incompetent director than Berry Summerfield? The "Plot" is just awful.Doctor Loveless(who in the TV show was a great character with Richard Keel as a henchman)is now a guy in a wheelchair who wants to use a gaint robot spider(That there is no way he could build in the 1860s)to kidnap the President and take over the west. Never mind that the ONE spider can only be in ONE place at once and that all you would have to do to stop it would be shoot it with a buch of cannons and that the vice president would take over for him and Grant would not be able to surrender to him,this is a Will Smith Movie.Don't even get me started on the cross dressing scene.Every piece of "plot" just leads to a mindless scene that is only there so that Warner Brothers can show you that they know what CGI is.In short this is the worst movie I have ever seen,and it makes the Awful Men in Black 2 look like a classic.I can't believe this made more money than the Classic South park movie on it opening weekend.
__label__1 This finally showed on HBO and ugh, I was not even prepared how terrible this film was. I kept watching like a deer staring at an oncoming semi, but the movie got worse and worse. The characters were horrible, especially the Brit (Kenneth Branagh) with the horrid southern accent.
Don't waste your time watching this one.
__label__1 As a fan of the original TV show, I was really rooting for "Wild Wild West" to succeed.  Imagine my disappointment then, when it turned out to be a complete failure, a dud of a movie, a huge disaster; in a word, it just plane sucked.  There were so many mistakes and errors made by the so-called "filmmakers" that I'm not even sure where to start.  First, casting Will Smith.  Unless your willing to completely disregard the history of the late nineteenth century and make race a complete non-factor (which is not what the writers chose to do) there is no way to sell a black James West.  Hell, the giant mechanical spider was more realistic than a black army officer in the post Civil War army.  Don't get me wrong, I love Will Smith, but because he is black this role was just not right for him.  Second, the writing. Four people are credited with the screenplay, and God only knows how many others "polished" the script along the way.  Yet, with all this talent involved, the end result is hideous.  It reminds me of the old maxim that a thousand monkeys randomly typing on typewriters would produce Shakespeare sooner or later; well in this case, they had a lot of writers carefully and selectively typing on typewriters, and they didn't get within a parsec of Shakespeare.  The story and characters were all wrong (they needed to look at the original show, which got it right), the dialogue is truly pathetic (I got real sick of West and Gordon saying "We have to save OUR president" "That monster is after OUR president") and NONE of the jokes work.  The absolute lowest point was when the writers tried to milk humor from a lynching; perhaps in their next effort, the writers will find the humor in the gas chambers of Auschwitz, or the killing fields of Bosnia.  The musical score was also a complete failure; it was flat, unimaginative, boring and unengaging.  The music should have been building suspense, providing a rousing theme, etc.  Except, about all it provided was a headache and all it roused was my ire.  "Wild Wild West" is the posterchild for the hallow, overhyped Hollywood movie that is supposed to be a guaranteed blockbuster (see also "Judge Dredd" and "The Avengers"), and it truly deserves the heaps of scorn and criticism which have been dumped on it.  I can only pray that Smith's next project can restore his now tarnished reputation, and that Barry Sonnenfeld never makes another movie again as long as he lives.
__label__1 I wouldn't waste your time and hard earned cash to watch this film. Which will no doubt turn into a big budget summer flop, just like "The Avengers" last year. I work at my local cinema and viewed it after finishing a shift, and I wish I'd just gone home instead.The actors in it all deserve better scripts and more in-depth characters. Although there are a few comic moments, and the special effects (which aren't particularly that good), it is not enough to make the film watchable. Personally I would stick to watching the music video which is much better.
__label__1 I had read something on Internet Movie Data Base saying that WWW was "not as bad as the reviews" ..... well, all through the movie, I kept waiting for it to get "not as bad as the reviews" and I never found it ..... it is one of the few movies I felt like leaving, and felt like the price of admission during a matinee was too much .....For me.... I just cannot suspend disbelief to the point of seeing stuff that is impossible to be built today with todays technologies being built like they were nothing in 1869 .....  it is like throwing out every law of physics and science ..... but then pasting a few things in to try and make it look real .....There was just so many impossible things done in that movie that are just impossible ... I like Science-fiction .... heck, I like fantasy movies.... You can invent all kinds of unrealistic stuff and I'll suspend disbelief forever... and like the made up stuff and enjoy the movie .....But this was absurd, and they tried to pass it off as feasible .... (which is my only real problem with the movie) ......For the record, I am a Will Smith fan, and I liked Men In Black (some connection with MiB and WWW) ...... but in MiB, the technologies came from elsewhere (and were just as ridiculous) .... but I can buy it ..... unlike this movie trying to pass of things that are totally ludicrous.
__label__1 Just another example of Hollywood excess gone for naught.  This film is so bad that anyone who pays to see it should have their head examined.  I'm sorry but sometimes hollywood execs should spend 100 million dollars on five smaller movies than one extravagent piece of garbage.Kevin Kline, who is one of my favorite actors, did not seem to care in this film.  Did he just phone it in?  As for the rest of the acting, well, Mr. Kline was the best.There were so many problems with the film I cannot even list them here. The first of many was that the plot just never interested you.  Then, the special effects didn't work either.Oh well, I'm sure Will Smith will make a comeback and this will not effect his bankability.
__label__1 Any one of the Roger Moore Bond films had more class then this tripe. Kevin Kline is horribly under used, so is the wonderful Salma Hyack. Will Smith(who is becoming more and more annoying) finally proves that he should of stayed with Bad Boys(his only great film). The effects in the movie are nothing to right home about, and the action scenes left me bored. Just more proof that the average film goer doesnt give a damn what they see, I wish Hollywood would realize that special effects and a few name stars does not make a good movie. Do not see this!
__label__1 Wild Wild West is easily the worst film of the summer. Slow, derivative, and boring. I sat starring at the screen, think "gee, they wasted a lot of money". The effects are spectacular, but they are without support. This film has the fewest laughs of any comedy I have ever seen.
__label__1 "The Wild Wild West" was a fun series, kind of like James Bond crossed with a buddy cop series in the west. It deserves better than this sad attempt at the continuing reign of Will Smith on the 4th of July. The casting of Will Smith as a secret service agent in the 1860s is a dumb coice and the "jokes" where white people come close to calling him names are not funny. The original James West, Robert Conrad, voiced his displeasure with this clear marketing move. The only lead that was cast well was Kevin Kline as Artemus Gordon. He does not reach the warmth of Ross Martin, the original, but is the source of humor, however strained and purile. Throughout the series there was villain who always brought a smile when he appeared, Dr. Migeleto Loveless, one of the most sophisticated villains. Like the greatest of villains, his only flaw is the arrogance that makes him underestimate his opponent. How does this film pay him respect? They turn him into an ignorant redneck who kidnaps scientists. An insult to the character and to Kenneth Branagh. The saddest aspect of the casting is that a prime choice existed. Warwick Davis (Willow) would have perfect for Dr. Loveless and someone impersonating Tom Selleck would have pulled this movie up out of the gutter. The only other necessity would be a script that paid more attention to the series. As it is, this movie is an annoying loser.
__label__1 Oh, really, how could anyone MAKE a film like this? It has to be one of the worst films I've seen in a long, long time. Kevin Kline: you must be desperate. Will Smith: You too.                          1/5 stars-                                  JOHN
__label__1 There have been remakes of really good movies or series that either are a viable continuation of a good thing or are good in their own right. This, however, is neither. This film is a slap in the face of anyone who goes to see it on account of its association with the Wild, Wild West series from the sixties.I'm not anti-Will Smith. On the contrary, I really enjoyed both MIB and ID4; but the guy is entirely out of place here. The jokes are lame, the one-liners sick. Even the effects and plot are not what you would expect. There is no chemistry between the characters.As this movie neither picks up well on anything the series had, nor has any real charisma of its own it leaves you wondering how anyone could have the gall to use Jim West's name for such a plain pain.If you haven't seen this film yet, try to keep it that way... Try to catch a rerun of the series instead - you'll be happier.1/10
__label__1 A true honest review? Some true honest advice? Don't waste your time on this, its terrible. I am a true fan of the original. I like the way it was weaved together with interesting characters, hammy dialogue and breath taking action sequences not to mention a beautiful location and some great plot devices. Brendan Fraser and Rachel Weiz lit up the screen with his charisma and her likability factor. They made a good screen presence and carried the story along until its fantastic action packed finale. I also like the way the producers mixed up the scenes, to spoon out not only violent and eerie scenes involving the main villain himself but to water it down to family standards with John Hannah's comical brother. It was a film of epic proportions. A fun story, likable characters and good use of live action and cgi, for the most part. Then about 2 years later Universal ran out of idea's and so decided to return to the bandwagon to churn out another cash cow sequel. 'The Mummy Returns' was released and whilst not as good as the original at least had the decency to be spectacular enough for the risibility. Fraser and Weiz returned (having made an offspring) and warbled, walloped and crashed through the bustling busy streets in a less than original screenplay but at least maintained their charm and kept the spark glowing from the first film. It was a likable sequel, and whilst no where near as good as its ancestor still managed to be entertaining.So here we are folks. 2008 and yet again we are re-visiting a tired series. The next gruesome threesome to bring home to Hollywood is not only the worst of the Mummy films, but quite possibly the worst sequel of the year to date. Its so bad in fact that even Rachel Weiz turned it down, but its not surprising having listened to some of the laughably dire dialogue churned out here. I bet she took one look at the script and threw it in the trash can. The story goes something like this... Brendan Fraser (back as Rick O'Connell) his wife Maria Bello (yes they replaced her with someone with half as much talent) her brother John Hannah (what is he doing in this?)and their son Luke Ford (who has now aged by about 20 years) are somehow prancing around in their ordinary lives (in the Far East?) but suddenly the son awakens an evil Mummy Emperor (because hey thats what your bound to do in a movie like this) who wants to use his army of the undead to take over the world and get revenge on the sorceress who put him to sleep so many years ago. The only people who can stop him are the O'Connels who crash and bang through armies of stone beasts, supernatural winds and all sorts of other unoriginal menaces. Of course the showdown at the end will result in global domination or ultimate Savior. But by that time, you just wont care.So.. why do I hate this one? when when one of the main stars from the original backs down and bails out and when the other looks bored throughout the whole darn thing you know you have a problem on your hands. And its sad because Brendan Fraser makes it blatantly obvious how unhappy he is reprising the role without Weiz by his side. He is never able to connect with Bello who tries to be chirpy but comes off looking rather ridiculous as the smart girl. And there we have another problem. Bello just cannot squeeze into Weiz's cleverly filled shoes. Its embarrassing to watch her warble on and you can really tell she felt uncomfortable trying to live up to the characters standards. The same can be said for Luke Ford, who makes a very unconvincing action hero-sidekick next to Fraser. Again they have no spark or connection what so ever. It feels like a cheap decision casting Ford because he never really brings any emotion, good or bad to the screen. The exception here is Jet Li, who whilst is not as menacing as Arnold Vosloo (the original mummy) still pulls off a good dark role. Its fresh seeing him portraying an evil character and it pays off when he is actually on screen. However his presence is short lived and at times feels like a guest appearance. And of course John Hannah who never disappoints and steals the show altogether with his one liners and witty charm. He almost makes this passable. Almost.The movie deserves another good kick in, this time for its overly used CGI action sequences which feel cheap, tacky and unoriginal. Imagine a Roger Corman flick added into a Uwe Boll video game adaptation and your halfway there. The sets are nice to look at, but the CGI is really distracting and you can tell they did things all by computers. The character development is replaced with an endless array of pointless battle sequences. Pointless !Its also really degrading seeing our much loved characters from the first movies spout lines of almost ridicule. Brendan Fraser cringes as he reads his lines (is he auditioning for the high school play?)and like I said Bello looks uncomfortable. Even Hannah looks bored and whilst trying to rescue this epic failure always looks like he wants to be doing better things. Like the ironing for example.There is just so much to bash this movie about. Its an obvious cash in, but even fails at being entertaining. It doesn't live up to the first or even the second. It is boring, confusing and the characters are bland. The action is over the top and don't get me started on the screenplay. Its just an all round failure and should be buried in the Tomb of the title, never to be re-awakened.
__label__1 This is probably one of the worst films I've seen in my life, and I don't tend to toss around accusations like that lightly, but this third installment of The Mummy series initiated back in 1999 deserves such dishonor, cause it's such a bad example of film making, it borders on offensive.I'm a guy with simple tastes, I'm not one of those people who think cinema begins and ends with Bergman and Goddard, I actually enjoyed the previous Mummy pictures, even the second one, which I know was cheesy as hell, but like film critic Michael Phillips said about cheesy movies, a movie sometimes is just "10.000 pounds of cheese on a cracker, but sometimes, I'm exactly in the mood for 10.000 pounds of cheese on a cracker." But The Mummy: Tomb of Dragon Emperor is, at best, feces on a cracker, the cracker being the amazing trailer of Quantum of Solace before the movie, probably the highlight of the experience.I won't go into any details regarding the plot, cause, well, the plot is pretty much explained fully on the trailer. We pick up with the O'Connell's, retired and bored as well, just as I was while watching the movie. They get at again to stop the evil Mummy of the Emperor Han from taking over the world...how original, when will these Mummies just wanna lay back and enjoy the comforts of the modern age. I'd love to see a movie about an ancient Mummy , brought back from the dead, only to be flabbergasted by the technology of the present, and lay around drinking beer, watching TV, and getting fat with McDonald's. That would be more fun that all that this movie had to offer.All of the actors were there for their paychecks, Brendan Fraser has never been more boring. John Hannah was also incredibly stupid, and the jokes they wrote for him were not funny at all, some are even distasteful. Luke Ford, playing Rick's son, not only looks like two minutes younger than him, but less charm than R2-D2, Michelle Yeoh is wasted, Jet Li doesn't have the Mummy gravitas that Arnold Voosloo had, and finally, Maria Bello; filling in for Rachel Weisz, who had the good common sense to stay away from this dregs, she is horrible, she looks so concern with her fake Posh accent, which she got wrong anyhow, so, at the end, we are left with nothing in the acting department.Rob Cohen, man, is he getting worse and worse, when you though Stealth was really the lowest a director could get, he managed to enlighten us with an even lower level of mediocre work. He has never been an interesting director, and his campy style has butchered many movies that looked interesting, if only for entertaining purposes, like Dragonheart and Daylight, but you would expect at least, with all that money spend on these summer movies, to have something to show for. But no, no, no, everything looks poor, the action sequences are dull as hell. To prove my point, this will probably be the only movie where a sword fight with Michelle Yeoh and Jet Li lasts about 20 seconds, and it's all in slow motion. If a director cannot make a sword fight between those two modern icons of martial arts films, he should really think about retiring for good.The story is stock, which is to be expected from a B movie of this sort, but like Raiders of the Lost Ark proved, even B movies can be Oscar Hopefuls, but there was no attempt at all with this one. The pacing of the story is terrible, the special effects are sub par, and at the end, you are left with a 2 hour yawn fest, to which you would fall to sleep within minutes, if it weren't for the loud noises coming from the speakers.The movie is shameful, and not worth the price of the ticket, this movie is the reason why some theaters have money back policies, and had the theater I saw this had one, I would have asked not only for my money back, but for a year of free admissions, for having seen this awful mess.
__label__1 After watching 'Mummy 3', watch 'The Mummy', and you will quickly see the vast difference in the two.There are many elements that made the Mummy 3 a horrible edition to the Mummy series. Yes, the disappearance of Rachel was disappointing, but her presence wouldn't be enough to save this film from it's ultimate demise. Even Brendan Fraiser's character lost the edge many grew to love in the first two. The idea of the Terra-cotta was interesting, but not for this series. The story was poorly executed and almost over shadowed by the even more terrible "romances" between Luke, Lin, and the O'Connells. The random dialogue and forced chemistry was enough to make you sick. There was very little going for this movie, and I'm disappointed in this series being handed over to Rob Cohen. This was nothing short of a botched boob job.
__label__1 I was able to see this film about a month ago in a preview screening and to put it in kind words, its terrible. Jet Li is about the only good thing about the film but he's hardly in it. Brendan Fraser was phoning in his performance and looked if he was waiting from a call from his agent to get him out of the movie. Maria Bello looked goofy and miscast and the actor who plays their son makes Hayden Christensen from the Star Wars films look like an Oscar winner. John Hannah manages to bring some laughs to the table but his stick is not as fresh as it was before and Michelle Yeoh does not really do much with her role. This movie lacks the creepiness of the first two Mummy movies and the stone warriors of this movie don't hold a candle to the ghouls of the first two films at all. Not to mention the fact that the visual effects in this film look even worse than the second film(The Mummy Returns). The film itself seemed toned down in the fun and thrills department and just feels tired in certain scenes not to mention the dialogue, which seems like it was written by a five year old. This film seemed like a quick payday from all involved and sadly with the little effort spent in giving the audience something to root for and care for, its just feels like no one even cared about what they were making.
__label__1 I want to say up front that I loved the first two Mummy movies, so I am not a hater of this franchise. They were campy, very tongue-in-cheek, and there was this wonderful rapport between the actors which came out in their performances. I went into this one with some trepidation because much of the main cast of the first two films would not be in it (Rachel Weisz, Arnold Vosloo, Patricia Velasquez and Oded Fehr), but I figured, well, the first two were great (or at least a lot of fun), so how bad could this one be?Oh. My. God.!!! I am not exaggerating when I say that the best part of the movie was the Chinese-writing animation of the closing credits. Five minutes into the film I was cringingly embarrassed for the actors, and it only got worse. The only actor whose performance didn't suck a dead dog's butt was Jet Li, but only just -- he basically spent the whole movie yelling, killing people, and looking extremely cheesed off. There was no connection between his character and the audience. I mean, Imhotep (in the first two films) did evil things, but he had this romantic tragedy thing going on because he was in love with Anck Su Namun, and you could see some reason for his actions and you could even maybe sympathize with him a little bit (particularly at the end of "The Mummy Returns" when he realized that Anck Su Namun didn't really love him -- at least, not like Evie loved Rick -- and it had all been for nothing). He had a human quality, I guess. The Dragon Emperor, not so much. As far as anyone could tell, he was just a megalomaniacal twit with a world-domination complex -- there were no redeeming features in his character -- it was just a cardboard cutout of "evil." The only thing I have to say about the mother/daughter immortal protectors team is that even put together, they're no Ardeth Bay. Maria Bello was horribly miscast as Evie O'Connell. Her performance seemed clingy and desperate (not just Evie being clingy and desperate, but herself, Maria, the "actress"). Luke Ford was a huge waste of space -- I never thought I'd see an "actor" who was worse at acting than Keanu Reeves, but Keanu Reeves is a great Shakespearean compared to Luke Ford. I echo another reviewer's comment in saying why didn't they just keep Freddie Boath? He's about the right age and he was actually funny in The Mummy Returns. Of course, it's probably better for his career that he *didn't* appear in this piece of trash (ditto Rachel Weisz, et al.) -- kudos to their agents for keeping them out of it. Brendan Fraser, whose performances I really enjoyed in the first two movies (although a great actor he is not), seemed like he was tired of the whole thing -- monumentally bored and just milking the franchise for another paycheck (I know that's a horrible thing to say, but I can't imagine why else the egregious performance -- I mean, you can only blame so much of it on the rotten script). John Hannah (another actor whom I usually really like) ditto. To paraphrase Mark Twain (from "Fenimore Cooper's Literary Offenses"): the film-maker should make the viewer feel a deep interest in the people in the film and in their fate; he should make the viewer love the good people and hate the bad ones. But the viewer of "The Mummy: Tomb of the Dragon Emperor" dislikes the good people in it, is indifferent to the others, and wishes they would all get drowned together.There was nothing even remotely funny about this movie -- the "jokes" (if you want to call them that) were either tired, stupid, or completely flat. The special effects couldn't make up for the mondo suckiness of this piece of... uh... "film." Even if they had been of the thrilling sort that one expects. Which these were not. The Yetis could have been cool, but they just, um, weren't. And the whole "field goal" thing was so NOT!I had to give this film a rating of 1 (awful) because that's as low as IMDb's scale goes, but I'd really like to give it something more like a 27. And I'd also really like a refund on the two hours of my life I wasted watching this dog. Boo! Hiss!! Yuck!!!
__label__1 First, Brendan Fraser is an actor who I really enjoy watching no matter what he's in. Second, I was hoping he would do another mummy movie - I like him in these campy action movies so I was looking forward to this movie. Now I wish he had turned this one down as Rachel did, I wouldn't have wasted my money. And I have a high tolerance for so-so movies. I felt so bad for Fraser, he was trying - but you can only do so much with a crappy script and poor direction.Pros: Very good special effects. Jet-Li, Yeoh had good fight scenes.Cons: Forced dialogue, Maria Bello trying too hard, No chemistry between Fraser-Bello-Ford (the son). Music either too much or just not a good fit, I found it overwhelming the scenes at times.Everything comes across as trying too hard. I miss the Sommers touch. I just didn't have any fun this time. Seriuosly, wait for it to come to cable.
__label__1 If you've:a) Never seen the first two Mummy films, but are aware of what they are,b) Like Michael Bay-esque dumb special effects pictures with quick-cutty action (cause God knows people seem to enjoy that crap),and c) Have no high expectations for entertainment, then you'll probably like this film.If you're smarter and have seen the other two Mummy films, going to this one is a major shift. If you thought 2 was different from 1, get a hold of this one. Especially when watching all the films in a row it is much more jarring than I remember it to be. I saw this on TV thinking it would be okay like the previous ones, but when it ended, I've turned off and I said "It's AWFUL!"The main change in plot is that the mummies are no longer in Egypt, but in China and made of chocolate from Willy Wonka's factory, er...terracotta. Alas, the execution was poor, everything is tonally different. The way its shot and the editing is hardly consistent with the last two pictures, favoring a lot of cuts and congested camera framing, making action set pieces that seem potentially fun and silly turn incomprehensible and joyless. This film falls into CG syndrome and favors a lot of CGI effects that looks like a video game. Clearly, handing the film off to a director who's had a mediocre-bad track record was bad: this is Rob Cohen (the man who helmed "Fast and Furious", "Stealth" and "xXx"); and a bad script written by the duo Alfred Gough/Miles Millar ("Smalville"). Even the characters aren't as fun here. Brendan Fraser seems tired and has lost his comic touch (maybe cause he's ironically older in this film). For Evelyn's role, the original character is lost and replaced with one that doesn't hold a candle to the original one. British actress and Oscar winner Rachel Weisz did a phenomenal job portraying a cute, smart and feisty librarian in the previous ones; this time, American actress Maria Bello is filling her shoes, who in a stark contrast, transforms Evy into a soft and fluffy bunny of woman, speaking with an unconvincing English accent. She looks like Rick's mother than his wife and the chemistry between both was poor....Jesus, it's like to cast an American actor for James Bond or Harry Potter (why didn't they choose a British brunette actress, i.e. Kate Beckinsale, in case Weisz declined, instead of dyeing a natural blonde actress?). Even Evy's brother, Jonathan, is reduced to bad comic relief; and even, a grown-up Alex, played by the 27-years-old Australian actor Luke Ford, looks like older than his dad (Hello! In 2008 Freddie Boath wasn't available, despite he was 17-years-old?). British actor Alex Pettyfer was going to be a good choice of Alex O'Connell role, but unfortunately, there were only rumors (if this was filmed in 2007 and released in 2008, and AP was born in 1990, he would've been 18-years old). The saddest thing about both characters, Jonathan and Alex, was is that they speak with a fluid American (or maybe Canadian) accent when they are supposed to be Britons. The villain of this sequel is lame, while the previous mummy portrayed by Arnold Vosloo was terrifying, this new "Mummy", portrayed by Jet Li isn't intimidating and he had an only ONE fight scene.Something good...a pack of yetis who looks like white Teletubbies kicking the baddies' butts and then celebrating like football players; and finally the Dragon Emperor appears, who is actually King Ghidorah's twin brother rather a Chinese dragon. It's a shame that Godzilla or Ultraman didn't come, because they are Japanese, although of course, that to America doesn't matter, because China and Japan it's the same. What is it trying to be? Fantasy? History? Myth? It ends up being a cloudy haze of a mess.At the end of the movie, after defeating the Emperor, everything is happiness and fortune cookies for Rick and Co., and Jonathan says "I wanna go somewhere where there's no mummies, like Peru". Before the screen fades to black for the credits roll, a caption says: "Soon after, mummies were found in Peru", which hints a fourth entry that never happened. Maybe would be Inca mummies....but inside a Mayan/Aztec pyramid, showing Peru again as Mexico or Guatemala, as they showed it in Indiana Jones 4? We will never know.If we could've just waited for Stephen Sommers, a better script, and have convinced Weisz to actually join the film with the better script (she declined this film because she disagreed with the script used), we could've had a nice return for the characters. Unfortunately, this big, dull, joyless bland return for the franchise may be the last we ever see, and its a bad way to go. Surely isn't terrible? Maybe average, right? I'm surprised to say it really is terrible. Unwatchable? Yes, it is painful to watch as you certainly feel heartbroken and insulted to see that a chance for a return for these likable characters was wasted off on a poorly executed effort like this, and to know there's likely no chance in hell we'll get another attempt to do so ever again.P.S.: For all the reviewers who seem happy with the recast for Evie's role; yeah sure, maybe you will say that Maria Bello is much more beautiful than Rachel Weisz, because in the real life she is blonde. Hey folks, when the fourth Mummy (set in my country, Peru) appears, don't expect for the British R.W. (Rachel Weisz) to decline once more to play as Evy, and then to be another blonde, the all-American R.W. (Reese Witherspoon) who plays a "different Evy" (an expert in martial arts and guns, who learns about Inca culture and Quechua language, speaks with an faux Brit accent, and voila! Here you have your new "Evy Carnahan" played by "Elle Woods") to see if you like Reese as Evy and you're happy for another recast (of course you will be, and maybe you will say that Witherspoon is more younger than Weisz, just because Reese was born in 1976) or you feel heartbroken when Weisz doesn't return. Bon appetit.Also, I warn you that when that day comes, you're still sinning from being open-minded to that pointless change explained previously, go watch the "Power Rangers" instead, so you can see how they constantly recast members, season by season.
__label__1 I loved the first two Mummy films and had high expectations for the third in the trilogy. Thankfully, I saw this film at home and was able to turn it off and walk away about 10 to 15 minutes into it.Anyone who wrote anything good about this film was either on drugs when they saw it, or is a studio plant, writing lies. I am giving the DVD to charity, though I honestly think it's mean to inflict this turd on anyone else.I honestly can't say I've ever seen a worse film, ever. Rachel Wise was the only smart one in the bunch, she turned it down. That should have been a big, fat, red flag. DON'T DO IT! Had I been at the theater, I would have asked for my money back. Sadly I can never get those minutes of my life back. If you haven't seen it, be glad.
__label__1 This movie sucks major big time. The script is utterly lousy. The characters are not the same characters I grew to love in the first 2 movies. There is NO chemistry between Brendan and the new Evy. The filming is disappointing. Wide shots might as well be photographs - nothing happens, no movement. Action shots are too close in so you can't see enough of what is going on. For instance, the sole fight scene between Michelle Yeoh and Jet Li is too close in. You can't see what these two martial arts experts are capable of. All you see is an occasional whirl of their arms, a twist of their torsos, and maybe a scowl if you're lucky. Legs and kicks don't come through because it's shot from the waist up, too close in. It lasts like 2 minutes - a real disappointment given what these two can really do. The plot has all this contrived, cutesy gook and sometimes it contradicts itself. This is a HUGE disappointment - a waste of money. No wonder Weisz saw fit not to sign up. Bring her and Stephen Sommers back and it would have been the same great Mummy movies from before.
__label__1 My god, that was AWFUL. Just random made-for-trailer tiny scenes that add to nothing, have zero depth and don't make up a coherent plot. Wall-to-wall inappropriate songs that come at random times. Boring plot (if you can even call it that), boring and indistinguishable flat characters. Harley Quinn was annoying. Jared Leto did his best as The Joker but had absolutely nothing to work with - he just appears at random times for a few seconds and disappears. There's no depth and no story. If you've seen the trailers, you basically saw all the one-liners and "money shots".If all that isn't enough, the last third of the movie is simply unwatchable.I don't think David Ayer is a bad director (I liked HARSH TIMES and FURY), but this is definitely his worst movie yet and I'm pretty sure it's due to massive pressure from the producers.
__label__1 Story line: what story line? - Wasted really good characters. Literally just threw them in this big pile of crap. - Should've just made the movie about the joker and harley quinn. Perhaps a cameo by deadshot instead of this 123min waste of time and money. - Joel Kinnaman... why? seriously, who the hell put this guy in the movie? - clichés. clichés everywhere. - the ending was good. because I finally got to go home, watch netflix and forget about this horrible, horrible thing.Please, do not watch this movie at the movie theater. Not even at home. Just make a new movie in your head and pretend that this one does not exist. Trust me, whatever you imagine gets an Oscar compared to this thing.I love movies, and consider myself with a decent amount of knowledge to rate a movie and this, my friends, is a total disappointment.
__label__1 Where to start, where to start? This is probably the main problem of the DCU at the moment. They're playing catchup to Marvel, they see Avengers they want in. The problem is, Marvel have spent 4,5 & 6 movies setting it up. We care if Cap gets hurt, we understand the Hulks turmoil and we saw Starks motivation for donning the suit. But here we're introduced to a whole new cast, backstory and all, in 30 mins tops. It just doesn't work, it's rushed, it's lazy and it has no effect in making the audience care about these characters; which in a movie where the stakes are so high, does not bode well. So here's what I thought of each character:Will Smiths Deadshot - has by far the most screen time and manages to annoy in every single scene. He hits all the clichés, slo-mo gun catch, CHECK. Says the movie title, CHECK. Even when he's playing a cold blooded assassin, he's a good guy. Rating 2/10Margot Robbies Harley Quinn - looks the part, has the voice, has the insanity. It works well. Some of the jokes miss and some of her stuff is very repetitive but she's the best of a bad bunch (pun intended) Rating 7/10 (let down by the writing, she's great as Harley)Jai Courtney's Boomerang - here's something I never thought I'd write. Jai Courtney acted well in this film. Criminally underused, could have been such a Deadpool-esque self aware character but again the writing (and Will Smiths screen time) sold him short. Rating 6/10Jay Hernandez El Diablo - starts off boring, does some fire stuff and some CGI stuff. Lame. Rating 3/10Viola Davis Amanda Waller - the best part of this film, even if her motivation is kind of all over the place. She's menacing, but justifies it. Rating 9/10Cara D Enchantress - Abysmal. She can't act, simple as. Why she got the job is beyond me. She's monotone, she has no emotion, she just can't act. Stop. Stop giving her parts. She's awful. Rating 0/10Joel K Rick Flag - Insipid. Boring. Tom Hardy would have been miles better. But I wouldn't want to hurt his career by being in this trash. Rating 2/10Killer Croc 4/10 pointlessKatana 3/10 pointlessSlipknot 0/10 pointlessBatman 0/10 pointless (just in it so he can be in the trailer and sell more tickets)Jared Leto Joker - Pointless. Again only for the trailer to sell tickets. He's weird, he's creepy, but he is NOT the Joker. He's Scarface with mental problems and a fetish for tattoos. They used very similar imagery to Heath Ledgers in some scenes. But then went batshit crazy (pun intended) in others. Unlike Heaths Joker who had a clear plan of just wanting chaos, this Joker is just meh. Take him out of the scenes he's in and it wouldn't change the scene, take his scenes out of the movie and it wouldn't change the movie. He's hardly in it but he gets a 10/10 for disappointing in every scene he's in. Rating -10/10Finally, it wants to be the avengers, it wants to be Guardians of the Galaxy, it wants to be the Dark Knight, it wants to be Deadpool, in the end it was just another DCU film. A ringing endorsement if ever there was one.
__label__1 If you want to enjoy this do not ask logical questions. Of course if I wanted a documentary movie , but logical inconsistencies here are too much...How a camera mounted on boomerang would not flip?How the boomerang was capable to hover?Why the enchantress didn't took the Amanda Waller's phone and killed the whole suicide squad?How the El Diablo didn't triggered the explosive when he went full fire?How the explosive was capable to kill the 'brother' but combination of fire, bullets and katana cuts was not? Explosion didn't look so powerful...Why at her final appearance Amanda Waller had her fingers on the touch screen of her phone and this didn't kill anyone? Who gave Harley a cell phone? And did't spy her communication at least? This could save few marine's life and a helicopter.Why Deadshot,Boomerang,Slipknot,Harley Quinn (and even Katana) were considered as meta humans?Why Amanda took the helicopter as it was the helicopter? There was no helicopter operational more than 2 minutes , before it was took down.Does the enchantress has two hearts at the end? How nobody recognized her brother's statue as a dangerous thing? Was his heart hidden somewhere? And what kind of archaeologist was June? She brook the potential precious artifact?And she was alone in the jungle?Why Slipknot was not present in the initial intro of the 'metahumans'. He came out of nowhere and died stupidly.How the squad attached so fast to each other? Especially the boomerang who killed his biddy during the robbery.And even a simple pistol is a superior weapon than this stupid boomerangs.What was the point of captain boomerang , except the hovering boomerang with the camera?And the joker was a joke. Who the hell thought that a joker without eyebrows will be a good idea. His face is so expressionless without the eyebrows.And these flashbacks were so chaotic....
__label__1 OK.So I'm a senior.But I've seen lots of Marvel/DC Comics movies. I really liked Ant Man last year because there was a story to it.Suicide Squad was filmed in my home town, Toronto.There was so much hype.But even my grown son hated it when we saw it.There's no character development. We wasted our money.Don't go to this disaster. You'll regret it no matter your age.During each scene, I was wondering what is happening.Because the lighting was so dark,I couldn't make out the action. There were times I kept asking myself why I had agreed to come to this film. The character,Harley Quinn, had this Brooklyn accent which didn't really fit in. The joker was a joke,not even scary or comical.This was the worst movie I have seen this year.
__label__1 After sitting in the theater, about 30 minutes into the movie, i asked myself: "Why the hell did this pile of vomit make it to the big screen? Why did I pay full price for this straight to DVD shoot-em-up fest?, why do I like that deranged blonde so much?". Plot of the movie: Get a bunch of deranged psychotic freaks to team up, shoot a bunch of generic freaks to get another big freak to stand in a corner so the humans blow it up with a generic bomb, that is the whole movie right there.Congrats to the marketing team behind this movie, getting so much people to watch this garbage is a big accomplishment.I imagine I would have enjoyed this movie if I was drunk as a skunk or high as a kite. Waste of time, waste of money, waste of talent, waste of resources, waste of life.
__label__1 Awful direction and screen writing. This movie is plagued with awkward and anticlimactic scenes. Seriously, can this David Ayer suck less?Making a movie about illogical people is no excuse to deprive it of ANY LOGIC at all.First of all, the non-villain characters are completely unlikeable. Flag and Waller act like condescending scumbag all the time. Waller is worse. She's like begging to be hated in every single scene. Why would David try so hard to make people hate a black woman??The whole disaster of the movie that the Suicide Squad had to fix was caused one of their members - Enchantress. If that project X (that creates the Suicide Squad) was not initiated in the first place, then there'd be no such disaster.Enchantress caused the disaster by releasing her brother, an almighty being that could wipe out the whole city, even the world. However, ever since she was released by June Moore, she had plenty of chances to do that because she could instantly teleport to anywhere. But she ended up waiting all the time. That means she's one of the strongest but also dumbest creatures on Earth.Harley Quinn proved her love to Joker by plunging into tanks of chemical toxic from at least the 5th floor, then was saved by just one kiss full of Joker love.When Waller found out Enchantress betrayed, she stabbed its heart multiple times, but didn't destroy it at all (!!) so that Enchantress could retrieve it later effortlessly and revive. If Waller simply destroyed that heart, the movie wouldn't happen. There were no character development and some characters were treated like trash. Slipknot as a Suicide Squad member appeared just to be killed disgracefully right at the beginning. Boomerang is also an insignificant character because the movie wouldn't change at all with or without him.Joker heroically appeared to save Harley Quinn just to be shot down immediately. Isn't he smart???Enchantress's brother, a Godlike being who devastated a whole city, was killed in an instant with a bomb that barely punched a hole on the ground.Almost all scenes with Waller were unpalatable, awkward, and anticlimactic, especially the ending of the final boss was defeated. Can David Ayer make the lasting moment of his movies less suck???Overall, I can't stand this state of plummeting movie standards anymore. I would vote a 1 and encourage everyone not to see it.
__label__1 Where to start...woe is me...where to start?!?! First I'll say I was looking forward to this movie for a long time..like many people. All I really cared about was of course...the resurrection of The Joker!I think Jared Leto has the kind of God given talent that can never be taught to any actor. He was born with it, like Nicholson and Ledger before him. So needless to say I was absolutely stoked to see what he would do with such an iconic character. I didn't really care much about anything else. Which leads me to say WOW! The marketing on this film was the definition of false advertisement. There were so many interesting story lines to play with here. The Joker and Harley Quinn with their demented love story wouldve been my first choice. It was Jared Leto and Margot Robbie that shouldve been leading this movie...NOT WILL SMITH! guys I can't stress enough how much i dislike Will Smith. Guys this whole movie revolves around Will Smith playing Will Smith in a movie where he's supposed to be playing Deadshot.God I can't stress enough just how much he ruined this movie for me. Basically he did his whole schtick from Hancock but threw on an extra layer of "stereotypical hood black guy" and called it Deadshot. As an African American..I cringed every time he opened his mouth.Sorry about my Will Smith melt down...he is just really awful.I really would've liked to understand more about Enchantress..there was definitely not enough time to establish her at all. The "Villains" were literally moving props whose only purpose was to slow our heroes down.Also, I'm not sure Cara Delevigne has the gravitas to really dig into Enchantress...but I could be wrong...The fail on June Moone could very well all be on David Ayer's shoulders. Also the CGI for Enchantress and her movements in the final sequence were actually laughable. I couldn't take her seriously.Diablo was the only actual Metahuman and they didn't explain his origin whatsoever. Not in a meaningful way anyway. Captain Boomerang wasn't terrible..not memorable either. Killer croc was there...could barely understand anything he said...but he was there...and apparently loves BET(GTFOH). Viola Davis was solidly cold hearted as Amanda Waller. Davis, Leto and Robbie were the only strong points of the film and there was not nearly enough of them.Personally, I really enjoyed Batman V Superman. I know the plot was a bit of jumbled mess and the bat vs supes was like 5 mins long and then there was Doomsday..ugh. But I still really liked it. There was a lot of it that dealt to me very believable circumstances. I can't say the same for SS...I never bought it. Not once did I sink into the story of the characters...I was always very aware I was in a movie theater watching the fresh prince flap his lips.To the folks at Warner Bros..ya'll need to step your game up..and do it quickly. You cannot keep making sub par movies like this. I'm this upset and I didn't even have to pay to see this movie. I can't even imagine the folks that are shelling out hard earned money for the 2 hour crapfest I just sat through. Jeez man...What a waste of Jared Leto. Save your money guys and pirate this crapfest in a week.
__label__1 Suicide Squad is a tedious movie. I saw this last night and I've tried to forget it ever since. From the get go, the Suicide Squad anti-heroes are introduced one- by-one. Then, once they're all given their backgrounds and clichéd introductions, they are delivered to their new boss, one . . . by . . . one. This consumes about the first 45 minutes, just before the meaningless action takes place. What's really ironic, More time is spent describing their ironic natures than explaining their first mission. Consequently, their first foray just seems pointless, because it is. The character development was weak and I really didn't care if they came back alive or not.HACK: In a fiction-writing context, the term is used to describe writers who are paid to churn out sensational, lower-quality "pulp" fiction such as "true crime" novels or action centered "super hero movies".Batman Begins (screenplay/director: Christopher Nolan) is a study in character development. Suicide Squad (David Ayer writer/director) is a hack job if there ever was one. And yet it has a 6.9 as I write this, so I see shills at work. Time will water this "dog" to it's real valuation, about 4.7 is my guess. I gave it a 1/10 because it's was insultingly bad. PS - Will Smith is interesting as usual, but not nearly enough to recommend this. This movie is a study in rote-cliché, predictable and plodding screenplay development, and extremely poor dialogue. Dead Pool is SO much better, that is if you want to laugh at super heroes.
__label__1 Talk about corny jokes, this movie is full of them. The story is so predictable and the characters are not good at all. Will Smith as Deadshot, bad, Harley Quinn, annoying, Killer Croc unbelievable, boomerang dumb, Joker just ridiculous.How did this movie get a 6.8? This was just dumb and the plot made no sense. Where are all the regular super heroes that originally caught the ss? Flash, Batman, etc...I really didn't want to see this to begin with cause even the previews looked corny and bad but my son wanted to go so I took him. Save your money and watch it on video, it won't be long.
__label__1 Just awful -horrible dialogue, zero premise. Stereotype Squad as far as characters concerned...in particular the Asian 'character' which was obviously a laughably cynical afterthought and the Boomerang Joe or Pete (I didn't care) - I mean, come on! Will Smith seemed embarrassed or wincing delivering his lines -hard to tell -and as for Jared Leto's OTT indulgent 'acting' -sheesh. Margot Robbie was probably only one whose character had a few good lines. Sad to see the otherwise incredible actress from Secrets and Lies reduced to the ridiculous boss character. The CGI was awful, particularly the monster at the end. Didn't make me feel anything toward the characters -no emotional resonance whatsoever.
__label__1 I'm seeing a lot of good reviews for this movie, and I can't even fathom why. There's nothing redeemable about the absolute wreck that I just saw. An alternate title to this movie could be "Plot where?", considering not a spec of this script spoke of originality. This was very clearly a mixup of every superhero movie stereotype possible, and it didn't work. It could have worked, but it didn't, and I'm as disappointed as the next guy. It was a complete mess of tropes, misused plot devices and characters with no depth. The most disappointing thing about this movie, honestly, is how bad it is. It's not funny bad. It's pitifully bad. It's an uninspired mess who's only light is it's characters, none of who are given enough screen time or good writing to make completely work, despite great acting by Will Smith, Margot Robbie, and Jay Hernandes, among others. Great idea. Terrible execution. The result? A movie not worth spending your time or money on.
__label__1 'A comedy of biblical proportions!' Those masters of hyperbole, the movie-tag-line-writers, at it again; the sequel to 2003's Bruce Almighty, raises barely a chuckle. The only thing which raises my interest in this movie above total indifference is its dogmatic Christian undertones. Sorry, make that overtones.Steve Carrel, ignoring Jim Carrey's good sense to decline a role reprisal, plays Evan Baxter, the smug news anchor from Bruce Almighty, who has just been elected to congress. With a new life in Virginia and the stress of moving into a house the size of the Acropolis, the pressure of all the change takes its toll on his family. His wife (Lauren Graham), evidently airlifted in from Stepford, and three sons (Jimmy Bennett, Graham Phillips and Johnny Simmons), who do a stilted job of looking sad to a piano accompaniment, pray for the family to become closer, and almost out of guilt, so does Evan.In what must be the greatest shock of all time, God (Morgan Freeman) actually shows up, but does the whole pesky 'working in mysterious ways' thing all over the place by telling Evan to build a Noah-esquire ark in preparation for a great flood instead of just giving him a pool table or and X-box or something. And in true mischievous deity style, he also forces Evan to grow a beard, long hair and wear worn and tatty robes. Now, back in the day I'm sure razors were hard to come by so the beard was somewhat of an inevitability for Noah, but I'm almost certain it had nothing to do with spirituality. Same with the robes; a massive construction job is surely made all the more difficult by such impractical clothing. Couldn't God have conjured up a pair of steel toed boots and a hard hat for the poor guy? Apparently not.To paraphrase Bill Hicks, I find the idea that God is messing with us somewhat unsettling, and so does Evan who fights him every step of the way. And who wouldn't? God essentially gets him fired, drives away his loved ones, makes him a laughing stock and at one point actually threatens him. Of course God turns out to be right, and the rational, hard working family man who was getting on fine by himself is forced to eat a large slice of bittersweet humble pie. It's almost as if to be left alone by God, Evan had to tolerate and humour him. What kind of message is that? Evan Almighty does have a highly commendable environmental slant, with the underlying theme being that the Federal Government is blind to the damage being done to the world around us. It is also the first film ever to offset its carbon emissions and this should surely be considered a landmark achievement by a Hollywood studio. Were it not for the trite, condescending banner of American Christianity flying high above it, Evan Almighty could have been an inoffensive family movie, with a praiseworthy environmental record. But with its confused religious dogma and relentless 'blind faith' message, it ranks as one of the most repugnant movies of all time.
__label__1 Well, for this abomination of a film, I wasn't expecting anything good. I find Steve Carell annoying, and Bruce Almighty was pretty good but there is absolutely no reason for it to have a sequel. Somehow, this film was even lower than my expectations, even when I didn't have any. Does anyone remember the Disney movie Noah with Tony Danza? Well, let's just say that Evan Almighty completely ripped it off in way too many ways for the movie to remain justifiable. Actually Evan Almighty was had the EXACT same plot outline as Noah, with the exception of a few technicalities, it was nothing but a carbon copy of a far-superior movie that was actually FUNNY. Another thing, did anyone get sick of Wanda Sykes' stupid, unfunny, redundant, one-liners that were literally in every single scene? It was completely ridiculous and just dragged the movie down more and more. Despite the fact that I basically had already seen the film ten years earlier(Noah), Evan Almighty has to be the most predictable movie I've ever seen. I figured out the entire movie from beginning to end within the first five minutes and eventually realized that it was ripping off Noah left and right. In conclusion, if you're a little bit unsure of whether or not you want to see Evan Almighty, and are already sick of Jonah Hill playing the same role in every single movie he's in, liked Bruce Almighty, and don't want to see a predictable, dry, unfunny movie with Steve Carell trying to act like Jim Carrey, then please, don't see this piece of garbage.
__label__1 Bad expectations, movie even worse.I went to see this movie because a friend of mine really wanted to go there and I thought: why not, I didn't hate transformers 2 (although it wasn't really good), and I had seen the trailer with the Eiffel Tower scene which looks pretty amazing. The rest of the film was pretty amazing too. But not amazing in a good way. I just couldn't believe how bad it was. I am actually still amazed as hell. The story is so crappy that I think I could write a thousand stories which are better. Here is a series of 'highlights'. It all starts in the Middle Ages, where some weapon maker is being punished for selling weapons to both sides. This has almost nothing to do with the film except that the weapon maker is an ancestor of a really bad guy in the movie. Then there is a transport of very high tech rockets which are almost stolen by some guys with really high tech weapons, but some other guys with high tech weapons come to the rescue. (indeed, every weapon in the movie is high tech, like year 3009 high tech). The rescue guys appear to be a special forces team called G.I. Joe. The surviving guys from the transport really like to join the team, but they need to be trained first. At the end of the first day of training they are almost scoring highest in the history of the team, so they are done. Right. Then the bad guys come in and steal the rockets. This time they succeed so the G.I. Joes need to get them back. This results in some really good action scenes including the Eiffel Tower coming down. It all looks really realistic. But after this it's only down the hill. The bad guys seem to have built a base under the polar ice, the size of a little city. Somehow no one ever noticed something happening there. Or everyone knew but just didn't inform G.I. Joe. By the way: it actually wasn't really cold out there somehow, because a lot of people didn't wear special clothes while walking around on the ice and it didn't seem to bother them at all. Or the actors just didn't know how to act like it was cold. That is possible because none of the actors was really looking like he/she cared a lot. Marlon Wayans was probably the least bad while he wasn't even funny. I think that says enough. The polar base is destroyed after a fight won by the good guys and because of the explosions the polar ice sinks together with the base. Yes, dear readers, the ice sinks. So alls well that ends well. oh, first one of the good guys needs to take down some rockets the bad guys managed to shoot just before the base was destroyed. Somehow the rockets can only be taken out by a supersonic plane that can only be controlled by speaking Celtic, which one of members of G.I.Joe happens to speak. So actually it's not really a problem, I think. Maybe it is a problem, I don't know, but it just doesn't make sense. Nothing in the whole script makes any sense. I still don't believe it. I'm sorry guys, it's overwhelming me. I need to stop writing or I'll start crying or worse. Just remember: don't watch the movie!
__label__1 First off, I would like to say that I created an IMDb account for the sole purpose of warning others about this terrible crap movie. At first, I was really excited to see the GI Joe movie. I got to the movie theater, and my friends and I were the only ones in the theater. I didn't think anything of it, I just thought that being alone would make the movie even better. Now I know why I was the only one in the theater. GI Joke was a horrible movie. It is a contender for the coveted title of the worst movie of the year. This movie was awful. I have pooped out better movies than this. The acting-crap. The casting-terrible (who cast Marlon Wayans in a serious part?) Character Development-absent Fight scenes-overdone and absurd Special effects-decent, but not good enough to distract me from all the suck around it. The only cool part was when they were chasing the car in Paris, but I have a hard time believing that one of the guys could catch up with the other after falling back like half a mile, but neither of them could gain thirty feet to catch the car they were chasing. This movie was sooooooooo cheesy and predictable. Who would have thought that duke and Anna would end up together? Who would have thought that snake eyes would killed his brother in the final showdown, and still keep his vow of silence? Who would have thought that Marlon wayans would have ended up with the redhead? And what the **** is up with cobra commander? He's just darth vader with a monocle. And why in gods green earth would they show you cobra commander's face?!? That's unacceptable. Shame on the writers, shame on the directors, shame on the actors, producers, and editors for making such a disgraceful movie as this. Do yourself a favor and burn your ten dollars. It'll be more amusing than spending it to watch this crap.
__label__1 May contain Spoilers: From the very beginning of the movie I could tell it was going to be horrible. The writing was awful, the special effects looked lame & the acting...don't get me started. The worst in the movie was Marlon Wayans and this has to be Dennis Quaid's worst performance (aside from his awful turn as Doc Holiday in Wyatt Earp). Everyone seemed so wooden. I actually busted out laughing when Cobra Commander comes on the screen. The only thing worth watching was Sienna Miller.Spoilers: * Why make the Baroness be under influence of a mind control device. She is supposed to be with Destro and according to the comics ends up joining with Major Blood to try and take control of Cobra from CC. She was never good. As far as I know she was never with Duke. Lame storyline * You don't see Destro's mask or Cobra Commander's until the end of the movie and it's not worth the wait. Destro looks laughably bad and Cobra Commander's mask looks like some retarded hazmat mask End Spoilers All in all this is destined to be nominated for a ton of Razzies and they will be well deserved...Terrible movie.
__label__1 well, i went into the cinema with no expectations about the movie, having never played with the toys as a kid, not really seen any of the trailers or hype, and not read any of the reviews about it. To be honest, the only reason i even went to see it is because i had already seen time travellers wife. i was not disappointed, i had no expectations and left the cinema after 2 hours wondering what on earth i had just been watching. to anyone thinking about paying to see this movie, save your money, buy a brightly coloured tin of paint, and a brush, and watch that dry instead. it will be more entertaining, i promise, and you will have a newly painted wall to show for the effort too.OK, so lets diagnose the movie. the beginning starts out o.k. but.. hang on... the beginning seems to be the same as the middle.. and the end.. in fact, the entire movie is essentially just an especially long sequence of fancy effects sequences.so, it begins and some cool suited people beam down and steal some warheads or something, and some other cool suited people come and try to stop them but fail. there is lots of shooting and explosions and fancy aeroplanes.then, they all go off to some big base and talk about the stolen weapons for a few minutes, and then there is more shooting and explosions and cool vehicles.then, they go off to Paris, apparently going after the warheads or something and there is more cool suits and shooting and aeroplanes, and you get the picture.oh yeah, then, at the end, one of the guys turns to metal for some reason.ultimately, the problem with this movie is that its the sort of movie you would get if you asked a 5 year old to script and direct it. its similar to transformers, x-men, iron man etc except with the main protagonists being entirely uninteresting characters with no discernible personality traits other than being "good guy" or "bad guy".The acting and story are about as plastic as the toys the movie is based on.
__label__1 I went into this "movie" with low, low expectations. From the trailers alone I could tell this "movie" was engineered for the mindless drones that make up the majority of summer blockbuster audiences. I imagine the only people will actually enjoy this "film" are the types of zombie slugs that clap and yell "BIG BOOM! SEXY LADIES!" when they see this. This movie request little, if any thinking at all to enjoy. I got far, far less out of going to see this than the faintest glimmer of hope that this would be even half-way decent, let alone watchable. It is seriously hard to describe with words how terrible this "movie" is. I am not in any way a fan boy or a fantasized G.I. Joe fan, nor am I comparing this to the source material (which I have seen some of). I am reviewing this movie solely for what it is: A disgraceful atrocity against mankind.For starters, the script was atrocious, to say the least. It seemed like every other word is a G.I. Joe catch phrase, or a cheese ball line. Delivered with sub-par acting, you can completely toss any hope for this aspect of the "movie" out the window and watch is collide on hard pavement 10 stories below.I know this time line is supposed to be independent from the G.I. Joe cartoon, but the story was pitiful as well. I think the biggest killer for me was the flashbacks that occurred every five to ten minutes. I understand these are placed in for the movie-goer who has no knowledge of characters, but they are all ridiculous and add absolutely nothing to the story. If they are going to do a sequel (which is set up at the end), they could have added in some of the character development then instead of cramming all of it in at once.The special effects weren't too bad, and some of the fighting was choreographed well. Rachel Nichols and Sienna Miller (leather suit) were nice eye candy as well, but those are the only good things I have to say about this "movie".If you are a mindless, unintelligent zombie that likes big explosions, nonsensical stories, and/or sexy ladies, strap on your bib (because your mouth will most likely be agape in amazement from flashing colors and lights during the "film") and watch this. Then when you are done come back to IMDb and give it anything above a 2 or 3.If you are even a half-way intelligent person that can understand basic laws of physics, and can appreciate even a decent summer blockbuster, do not watch this "movie". When I say do not watch this movie, I mean do not even bother illegally downloading it, or renting it. If a friend of yours has it and offers to watch it, leave immediately. If you walk into their place while they are half way through it, turn around and drive away quickly, or better yet, jump out the window.I saw this in a free theater and I felt so nauseous afterward, I think they should have paid me to watch it. If only I had known just how terrible this was going to be before going in, I would have saved myself the horror and agony of sitting through this, and watched paint dry, or stared directly at the sun (which would have been more entertaining).For those of you who can successfully read through this review without being distracted by a flying insect, do not under any circumstance watch this movie. If I could, I would rate this movie as a Class A Poison. Keep it away from children and animals, because even a small dose is potentially harmful. Yes, that is right: I would not let even my dog watch this, as I would consider it animal cruelty. This is a fair warning to you all!To IMDb: Please make the rating system 0-10, so I can give this movie a 0.Note: I put the words film and movie in quotations when referring to G.I. Joe: Rise of the Cobra. This is because I do not actually believe this to be a movie, but instead an anthology of how stupid the human race has become in mass.
__label__1 As a fan of the original series i was not pleased on how accurate the characters were. The only one that was close is Snake Eyes(who is a total bada**) Character flaws (Contains Spoilers) Snake Eyes - in the movie it says that snake eyes was mute because of a vow of silence when really he was in a helicopter accident and had his face scarred and was left mostly mute. Also he should have blonde hair but instead he has brown (kid version) Scarlett - Should have a relationship with Snake Eyes but instead goes for Ripcord???? really......Baroness - Is controlled by cobra?? and her brother is Rex which should really be named Eugene. Had a relationship with Duke in the past which should have never happened. She should be with Destro.Storm Shadow - In the movie he kills his master which should not happen, he was only blamed for it. He and Snake Eyes should be like best friends but Storm Shadow hunts for his uncles killer after he is blamed and later gets brainwashed by Cobra.Zartan - Can only change his appearance through nanomachines instead of illusions and holograms.Cobra Commander - you see his face.....YOU SEE HIS FACE! >:O and he is Baroness's brother Rex??? really..... come on....Accelerator suits are garbage. The Joe's are supposed to be the best of the best military personnel. They never wore performance enhancing suits.I know they wanted to modernize this series and make it all action packed but these character flaws should not be this bad. It would not be hard at all to make the characters how they should be.If you took all the scenes with Snake Eyes and left the rest out it would be 10 times better than seeing the whole thing
__label__1 it was far far too long, the only good part was in Paris when they wore the suits (basically from the TV trailers), an unusually silly film that I would honestly recommend anyone to wait until it appears on DVD or better to save your money and await T.V. in 3 years. I'm trying to put into words how bad this film was and it's difficult... . honestly... . I was just hoping it would end very soon and throughout thought more about writing a comment on IMDb during the presentation as opposed to trying my hardest to enjoy it, if you had to live your life in Hell, this film would only have to do a Groundhog Day and you will then know what true torture is. Sienna Miller is useless, Christopher Eccleston from Salford gives the worst Scottish accent ever (I think he must have watched Braveheart many times over and asked Mr Gibson for some help). Dennis Quaid is... . terrible! it must be the worst part he's ever played, by the looks of things on this film he came right out the back end of Martin Short and planted himself in this massive black hole of an enigma. the only thing that got me at the end was Snake Eyes did not speak, wow that totally shook me up!
__label__1 This Movie is for people who saw the Commercials, and maybe played with the action figures when they were kids but never read or saw anything about G.I.Joe. When I first saw the trailer for this, I knew I had to see this movie, I was like a kid at Christmas and couldn't wait for the morning to finally open the big present, only to find it was a rock... I would say a lump of coal, but at least that would be useful for something other than to throw at someone. Something I would like to do to the writers, director and producers of this movie... I don't only want the money I wasted on this movie back, I want the time that was wasted on this movie. It doesn't matter if you were a fan of the Comic book, or the TV show... I personally liked both, but where did they get the idea to make Cobra Commander and the Baroness brother and sister?? Oh yeah, and Cobra Commander was Dukes buddy? and the Baroness was Duke's Fiancée?? I have an idea, let's remake the Wizard of Oz, and have the wicked witch be the good guy and Dorothy be the evil villain... I think it will work as well as this movie... When I first see Snake Eyes, I think yes, this rocks... Little do I know they screw up every major development in the entire story line of either. It looks like they try to follow the comic book story line, except Scarlett is Ripcord's love interest, she is not with Snake Eyes... There is so much I could talk about how awful this movie is, but I can't. I didn't care for the second Transformers Movie, but if I had to go watch either one of these two films again, it was a much better movie than this one. I warn all of you that have not seen this movie yet, do not go, if you love the TV show and the Comic Book. I don't want to see anyone else disappointed like I am.
__label__1 Paramount Pictures and Hasbro, whose previous collaboration was the worldwide blockbuster 'Transformers' join forces with Spyglass Entertainment for another extraordinary action-adventure 'G.I Joe' – that's what's being marketed globally for this new flick. But don't get your hopes up because if you're expecting an actual plot and a clever/humorous dialogue banter between well developed characters. You'd have more luck watching half way through a Disney Pixar film.The film was all action and that's it. Script, plot, the art of acting & characterisation was all completely f**ked! Not that the screenwriters and director Stephen Sommers thought any of these film techniques would help make the movie a little more bearable. They seem determined to mainly deliver one high-octane, heavily CGI-laden ultimately deadening effect.The film revolves around the idea of "the Joes" (not just the one all-American-hero G.I Joe) - now a massive underground secret service division with the best ops from all around the world cumulated into one unit. Right this is a seriously flawed foundation for the film to be base on since all I was asking throughout the film was, where's the funding coming from? Didn't anyone notice all their best soldiers disappearing? Why the hell are all these solders co-operatively turning their back on their own countries to work for America? .... Weren't any of these questions raised at all??? The government must all be f**ken stupid in the near future. I mean I'm all for good bullshit light entertaining actions films but there's only so much I can handle. And throwing in a whole heap of 'the Mummy' cast (Brendan Fraser, Arnold Vosloo & Kevin J. O'Connor) isn't going to help the film whatsoever except maybe jack the budget up to make it seem like a bigger blockbuster film.But hey! That's just my opinion.Don't take my word for it; catch it in cinemas if you want to experience the mind numbing – eye rolling – ear and brain damaging film while it's still available, because duds always get booted off the silver screens sooner than expected. My favourite line "You will now call me COMMANDER! Muahhahaha!" – Hilarious... you'll know what I mean when you see it..http://musingsandmorsels.weebly.com/
__label__1 Another ruined childhood relic. Terrible plot, terrible actors, terrible use of the franchise. The only good thing, like most movies nowadays, is the special effects. But who really cares? That is a dime a dozen. You can really see the butchered Transformers producing background in this movie. Way to ruin two old-school childhood icons. Now let's get some "good" actors, not just in shape and a flavor of the month. Some good writers who are uncompromising and actually fans of whatever they are redoing. And most importantly good producers with a vision, not just a ten minute script and million dollar effects with a stamped brand on it.
__label__1 This Movie Truly Sucks, its a Joke. I watched it on DVD and just kept nodding my head. Very Start of the movie, the inactive warhead were supposed to be so sensitive that pot holes on the road were to be avoided, yet the Weaponized ones later in the movie went through complete destruction of the vehicle yet they survive. The manufacturing company MARS supposed to be playing with both sides, would be so easy to pass the warheads directly to the enemy but the movie went through the elaborate plot of first giving the weapons to US and then let the enemy steal them... What a Joke, would be so easy just to give it to them. The G.I. Joe base in Eygpt is a Fortress yet the so easily breached with no alarms nothing. Entire City is built under water yet no one knows about it. Twp missiles were fired both in opposite direction, one for Moscow the other for Washington DC, Marlon Wayans destroys the one for Moscow just few seconds before the Impact which is fine but suddenly appears above Washington to destroy the other, no mention of WARP Speed, even Superman could not do this, he had to make the planet go back in time to prevent it. Not even worth for DVD!!
__label__1 The movie was horrible. - Changes were made to characters that were unnecessary. - The dialog was poor. - The acting atrocious, with the exception of Sienna Miller who actually showed a bit of range. - The plot was contrived. Plot holes were more prevalent than the story itself. Essentially, the entire screenplay from concept to execution, both by the actors and the director, was a disaster. - The special effects were very poor.How this movie ever made it past the first few weeks of filming is beyond me. How anyone ever let it be released to theaters is an even more prevalent question. Growing up watching GI Joe and owning a large number of the toys and spending a great deal of time reading the comics, I now feel as though this movie has stolen/ruined a piece of my childhood. If I could forget that I saw it, I would.The audience, myself included, spent a large portion of the movie groaning. We laughed at the attempts to be serious - not with the movie, but AT IT. Wayans attempts at comedy rarely managed a chuckle from the audience.Overall, don't see this. Don't rent it. Don't do anything that may encourage them to make a sequel. Maybe in 15 years someone will just reboot the franchise and do it properly.
__label__1 I get that this is a kids film & they were trying to use simple ways of showing how emotions are formed but I can't forgive the fact that the whole plot was about how a little girl was suffering from depression because, due to a clerical error, happiness was out of office. & the final lesson just felt like "Cry & everything will be alright". Given how much praise this film was receiving (let alone it's a Pixar film) I was hoping for a much smarter explanation of emotions.Also most other aspects of the film just weren't funny/enjoyable.
__label__1 I had high hopes of Inside Out before heading to the movie theater to go see it. The movie had lots of promotion on TV and Disney Channel where kids mainly go to see the exciting movies coming to a theatre near them. Needless to say, I was highly disappointed in this movie. I have to admit that the idea of the story was great and very creative, especially to young children. Other than that, the lack of character development and no good plot development ruined the entire film for me.Almost the entire movie consists of Joy and Sadness walking around that large area of Riley's memories, attempting to find their way back to headquarters, while the other emotions nonchalantly mess everything up (I don't get why Joy was the only emotion with some commonsense). Of course, along the way, they met a spunky elephant (mixed with some other animals) who managed to make situations worse more than making them better, and of course, he had to die at the end because, reality check, it's a Disney film. And their goal is to somehow make you cry one way or another. I just didn't get how the elephant disappeared so quickly, considering he hadn't been down the forgotten memory abyss that long. If the memories died so quickly like he had, why were their thousands of old grey memories still intact? Anyway, that's only a small screw-up compared to the rest of the movie. I felt like I had been constantly waiting for more character development for Riley but once again, I was let down. The entire movie revolved more around the emotions more than Riley, who from the trailer, seemed to be the star of the show. I could go on and on about the huge flaws and plot holes but I only have a limit of a thousand words. Do yourself a favor and spare the $7.50 and wasted hour that you'll never get back. I wouldn't watch that movie again if my life depended on it.
__label__1 I have not seen every Disney Pixar film. The ones I have watched are the Toy Story films, Monsters Inc and it's sequel Monster University, a Bugs Life, Cars, Finding Nemo & The Incredibles. The ones I have not seen are Wall-e, Ratouttlie, Brave, Cars 2 and The Good Dinosaur. Most of the ones I seen were either great or not bad. My favourite Disney film is the Lion King followed by the Jungle Book (1967) and Pinocchio. But this film is one of the worst and boring Disney films I have ever seen!The film is about a little girl named Riley who moves to a new home in San Franscisco after her dad gets a new job and her mind is controlled by a group of creatures known as 'emotions' who get her through everyday life but two of them Joy and Sadness end up in the bowls of Riley's mind where old memories are stored and without them especially Joy Riley's life is misery at home and school.This film was just awful. This film may be family friendly but the film is nothing like a film for children. There is very little comedy and is more adult-themed than the other Pixar films. It is my opinion also that this film shares similarities to Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, The Exorcist and The Land Before Time. Like in Snow White the emotions have names matching that of their personality. For example Joy is all happy and optimistic while Sadness is like Eeyore by being downright miserable. Like Regan McNeil of The Exorcist Riley is processed in her mind but by the emotions and not a demon named Pazuzu while her parents and presumably everyone in the film are also processed by emotions. The film's sub plot where Joy and Sadness try to get back to headquarters is a throwback to the Land Before Time where Littlefoot and his friends try to find the Great Valley. I also felt the film was rushed and none of the characters apart from Riley, Joy and Sadness get much screen time. Even Anger, Fear and Disgust hardly get involved in the film. Disgust arguably was the emotion who got demoted to extra.The film was as I said rubbish and how people loved this film has left me stumped. To me this film does not deserve a sequel as this film is just not good enough for one.
__label__1 I am genuinely confused as to why people are calling this "Pixar's Best" or an original concept. Pixar has done far better than this and even the mediocre 'Brave' and 'Cars' are far better.Not only is the concept of 'people controlling your brain' tired and used multiple times, they managed to make it even more boring. There is absolutely no nuance in this film. The characters, (joy, anger, fear, disgust, sadness), are a visual representation of their emotion. I mean seriously, do they understand subtlety at all? Anger literally catches on fire, sadness is blue, and joy looks like every boring same-faced cartoon princess. Not to mention none of the emotions look like Riley, the little girl. This is even more of a flaw when we later see the emotions in other characters heads, (Riley's parents, her teacher, etc.) who look just like the person whose brain they inhabit. Why would Riley be the only one whose emotions all look nothing like her? They took an old concept, made it incredibly literal, and then botched it up with inconsistencies. Aside from the boring concept, this movie is way too complex and depressing for children. The plot is nearly nonexistent and the most constant thing throughout is joy and sadness attempting to get back to the control center of Riley's brain after being sucked out by accident. Other than that its all very dull and if it doesn't make you cry, you'll probably fall asleep. There are, from what I remember, no laugh out loud jokes. Way too much time went into world-building and showing off the various landscapes and rooms of Riley's mind for there to be any actual storyline. Everything felt extremely dragged out and joy and sadness ran into obstacle after obstacle trying to get back to the control center. Finally, Riley tries to run away and it just so happens that joy returns and fixes everything before she has the chance to get too far. Not only was it absurd for an 11 year old girl to try and take a bus back home, it was far too sad the way the whole thing was shown. There were so many random characters introduced for 5 seconds which served no purpose other than to lighten the mood, and they failed at that too. Bing Bong the imaginary friend who was a furry pink elephant was out of place and his design was really uncreative. When he died, I honestly felt relieved not to hear his irritating voice any more. He had no personality or character development and therefore there wasn't any reason to feel sad when he died. Unles of course you're a little kid in which case the whole thing was way too heavy. Either way its a definite miss.And for those saying only psychology majors can enjoy this movie, that's not true. I can't imagine anyone honestly liking this movie. Aside from the complete inaccuracy of anyone feeling only one emotion at a time, everything about this movie was casually ableist. The portrayal of depression as being something small and easily gotten over was incorrect and terrible. Even the advertisements ("Meet the Little Voices Inside Your Head") felt like an insensitive joke towards people with schizophrenia or other disorders who have auditory hallucinations.Overall, I would not recommend this movie to anyone. Too depressing and confusing for kids, too boring and literal for adults, this movie is enjoyable by no one. Pixar did not please its intended audience, nor did it please the grown ups. The one redeeming factor was the animation, which was good but all the designs were so uncreative that good animation couldn't save it.
__label__1 This movie was built up by the trailers and I was actually excited to see it. The fact of the matter is that this movie is boring and not worth seeing. How major movie critics almost unanimously gave this movie positive reviews really makes no sense. Googling reviews for this movie proves to be much more telling than the scores it received on "reputable" websites. The scores are overblown because people were being generous with negative scores and way too generous with positive reviews by giving perfect scores to this mess of a movie. If you want to watch a movie and feel really uncomfortable this is for you. The emotions are forced at the viewer and explained by a plot that falls apart like the memories in the movie. Unfortunately my memory of this movie will remain.
__label__1 There are a few reasons why I consider this movie terrible and why I find it so horrifying that it's current rating is 8.5 when Spirited Away--one of the best animated movies ever created--is sitting at 8.6. Long story short, the characters were for the most part difficult to like. Joy was thoughtlessly cruel and condescending to Sadness and the other emotions, and Riley--the girl we're all supposed to love and find easy to relate to--was extremely obnoxious/egocentric and rubbed me the wrong way for the entire movie. I resented the stereotypes that were used and found them more than a little insulting. For example, Riley has an "imaginary boyfriend" at the age of 12. I don't know about you people, but I find this extremely concerning. 12 year old girls should NOT be thinking that they should have boyfriends at their age--while it may start out innocent, it can unconsciously encourage premature sexual thoughts and activity, which is EXTREMELY unhealthy and dangerous at their age. Also, I don't personally know any girls (including myself) who ACTUALLY had imaginary boyfriends. Ever. Let alone at 12! And don't even get me started on the imaginary friend Bing-Bong. BING-BONG! That's actually his name! I found him irritating and, frankly, disturbing. Now, don't get me wrong, I'm sure young children will LOVE this movie, and maybe some parents and teenagers as well. However, on the whole, I would NOT consider it up to par with other Disney Pixar movies. It was compared to "UP" for Pete's sake--the movie that had EVERYONE crying within the first 10 minutes! It was an enormous let- down for me, especially since all the raving had really caused me to build it up, which made it all the more disappointing. Therefore, watch at your own peril. Consider yourself warned.
__label__1 I went to see this with my 6 year old and 12 year old and we all left depressed and hating the movie. Disney needs to remember they are in the "entertainment" business. This is the second movie they have made lately that leaves you feeling worse after you saw it than you were before viewing it. Inside Out begins with a good story line, but sadness (better named depression)is the biggest part of the movie. Yes, there is realism. But, I prefer the "fantasy" part of cartoons where one can escape the bad and enjoy a light-hearted laugh for a bit. In my opinion, Disney head's need to see a professional about this depression they feel so compelled to share. I won't waste my money on another movie ticket to a Disney show until can see people laughing when they talk about the new show. I grew up with Disney movies and loved almost all of them. Am so sad that my kids can't have that same joy! This movie was such a waste of talent and time!!! Save your money and watch a DVD at home instead.
__label__1 The film was awful and extremely boring. It was just so depressing and sadness was possibly the most annoying character ever conceived...why why why did she have to keep touching things after she was told over and over not to, just irritating. It got to the point where I was dreading the character coming on the telly. Animated Disney/pixar films should stick to what they are good at and that's making children (and adults) happy. Yes they can have a moral lesson and sad bits but the general overtone is happiness not depressing characters inside another depressing character that I couldn't care less about. Should never have been made, should have saved their money. Im very sad that I can never get back the time I wasted on it...I could have watched paint dry.
__label__1 This still had some appeal as a trailer but sadly as a whole it felt flat pretty fast.The whole movie had a depressing effect and this became more obvious as the movie progressed.The basic story was some what ridiculous about only 5 characters controlling your brain similar to the factions in divergent(same screenplay writer perhaps?)Of the 5 characters 2 are highlighted and both of them (Joy and Sadness)are just annoying and the 3 side characters are totally forgettable.Problem here is they always react the same making it very predictable and there for equals boring.It has not been a good animation year, only the penguins worked and Minions and now this one really failed miserable.So,please ,put the fun and laughs back in these movies and stop with putting adult subjects in to kids movies. That might have worked once but at this point you're overdoing it.I think this one was rushed and not as well worked out as previous installments by pixar and I do hope they find they're way again and return to the classics we all know and love.Re-animate.
__label__1 Just awful...This joyless stinker is an abomination.Annoying American schoolboy speaking annoying schoolboy slang in the jungle? Give me a break. Yeah, he's a kid but his range just about reaches Kevin Costner heights! They should have used real animals and computerized the annoying child.The CGI animals simply look freakish and absurd. The story makes no sense and keeps changing direction. The 'A' list talent end up looking stupid or lazy and some of them manage both!I don't imagine anyone with an IQ over about 80 is gonna stay awake long enough to see this through to the end. I managed about 30 minutes before I got so annoyed I had to pause it. It never got better!Get the cartoon version. It's fantastic and won't ever be beaten. This insulting pile of poo won't ever be remembered for anything of value.
__label__1 I am so very sorry to say this but I wasted my money seeing this piece of crap! John Favreau may have made decent films including Elf and Iron Man but for me John Favreau has failed to make this film as great as the original animated version.The film sucks for three reasons. First the film is just a live action remake of the film. Familiar with Kaa wanting to eat Mowgli? Familiar with King Louie wanting to know about Man's Red Flower? Or the book which appears at the start of the cartoon version? Yes all those scenes return to the film. Though the plot is slightly different the film is just to similar to the cartoon version. Why would we want to see all those clips again? It is just how Star Wars fans reacted when they compared Force Awakens to the original Star Wars film A New Hope. So basically the film concerns about Mowgli who has to go to a Man Village after a tiger named Sher Khan will stop at nothing to kill him but you know the story if you seen the cartoon version. To me the film was just to faithful to the 1967 version but it does include tones from the book by Kipling. The film should be more based on the book rather than a remake. Secondly there are to many throwbacks not just to the 1967 version but other previous Disney films. Rakasha telling Mowgli he will always be her son is a throwback to Tarzan, the way Louie sang I want to be like you is similar to how Genie sang You never had a friend like Me from Aladdlin, the fire in the forest is a throwback to both Bambi and the Lion King II Simba's Pride, Sher Kahn falling to his death in the fire is similar to how Frollo died in Hunchback of Notre Dame and the stampede is a throwback to the Lion King. In my opinion this film was like it was made of different reminders of the previous Disney films. Thirdly the voice acting was just terrible especially Baloo and Bagheera. Other actors could have been in the film who would be better suited for the roles. For me John Goodman and Patrick Stewart would had been better choices for Baloo and Bagheera as John Goodman played bumbling characters like Fred Flintstone, the landlord from the Burrowers and Sulley of Monster's Inc. Plus he voiced Baloo in the Jungle Book 2. Patrick Stewart is best known for playing no nonsense characters and he would have nailed it as Bagheera. However the scariest character in the film was not Sher Kahn but King Louie. He was the only character I found disturbing due to his size and you know the moment he chases Mowgli hell breaks loose. However I liked the way he sang I want to be like you as it was much better than the cartoon version. That was the only thing I liked in the film. Other than that this film is just rubbish. As I said it is a remake of the 1967 version we all know and love. If you were wise just stick to the 1967 version. Save your money!
__label__1 after seeing this could not believe the reviews, the film was bad, bad and bad. the kid playing mowgli has to be the worst child actor i have ever seen, terrible voice, one gormless expression throughout the film, he could not convey joy, sadness or fear. the film looked fuzzy and washed out all the way through. all the voices were flat and un emotional, great actors as bill murray and christopher walken sounded like they were on valium. not a patch on the animated version or the korda version and not remotely close to Disney's own previous live action retelling of the story that stephen somers directed with an older mowgli brilliantly played by jason scott lee. the film had no depth, emotion or character to it. the script was cliché after cliché. there was no life in any part of it, no pace just seemed to go through tired set ups. as for it having an ecological message, we could not see or find it anyway or anytime during the film.
__label__1 I guess this will be a spoiler because I found the story line to be so far from the original, I feel I had to tell you before you wasted your time and money to see it.I don't know what story this director was trying to copy, but it wasn't The Jungle Book that I know. The only resemblance to the original story are the character names.There's some stupid part that the elephants created everything, and they had to bow to them to show respect?? What?And, he never sees the little girl! As far as we know he stays in the jungle??No where near the original story line. Disappointed that this guy felt he had to re-do the entire story to conform to his stupid theology.NOTE: the animation and graphics were really cool, but that's not an excuse to change the entire story. It would have been a super movie IF he would have stayed with the story line.This guy obviously likes himself a little too much to think he has a right to make Jungle Book any way he wants and still call it "Jungle Book".
__label__1 This movie got High Rating by critics, a lots of them put it as number one in 2016 (https://www.rottentomatoes.com/m/the_jungle_book_2016) so I expected nothing but perfect, Unfortunately it was disappointing. At first, the voices did not fit with the movement of the characters, except Bill Mary as Baloo. The CGI was good, but it was too much , throughout the film It did not felt that i am in the Jungle , it was like i am inside a computer game, nothing naturally was there except the child. Then, we have the kid Neel Sethi who Was Terrible, no feelings, no a spirit of Mowgli, the kid was lost between the computer graphics. And The story, I expected it more depth , something new , Unfortunately there was no any addition at all, in fact it was more short version of the story. I did not feel the spirit of Mowgli (fun and smart kid), I did not feel the crazy jungle, no atmosphere of this beautiful story, just A LOTS of Computer-generated imagery (CGI).
__label__1 First, let me get this right; I am a FAN of the first Ironman movie;the American war propaganda machine looses its hero (the best weapon producer) when the Ironman character realizes after being confronted with suffering and death that peace is guaranteed by "having a bigger stick" than your opponent (good so far,.., but nevertheless fun with a bit of criticism); "welcome tony stark, the most famous mass-murderer in human history"(Ironman 1)- great; and so Ironman is created by tony stark, a charismatic, smart genius (very good performance from Robert Downey Jr.);and here in Ironman2: NOTHING, NO STORY, NO PLOT, EVEN NO ACTION; NO CHARACTER DEVELOPMENT; just nothing; the tony stark character isn't even smart anymore; he is just arrogant and sometimes accidentally funny;when you watched the trailer you have seen ALL the action sequences (and i really mean ALL!) in the whole film; the whole film is filled with senseless dialogues; why replacing Terrence Howard with Don Cheadle??? Terrence did a good job, Don Cheadle doesn't fit in (although he was great in Traitor) Mrs. Paltrow is just annoying, annoying, annoying; Samuel L. Jackson just makes a 2 min commercial for the avenger movie; Sam Rockwell, well.., not so good:)the only positive thing are the action scenes with Mickey Rourke at the beginning (just at the beginning..so about 5 min)and Scarlett Johanssons scenes ;) If you liked transformers 2, you will be satisfied with this brainless try of entertainment; My native language isn't English.
__label__1 .SPOILERS WITHIN. ----------------- Take note, ladies and gentlemen. This is what happens when you rush a sequel into production without first having a quality script...or even a good script. This is simply a poor movie. No doubt that it's fun, but when the fundamentals are not there, you still end up dissatisfied.What is Tony Stark's goal? This is the most important part of any film story and here, it's missing. How does this happen? You can argue that his goal is to stop Whiplash, but Whiplash is never threatening anybody apart from the Monaco scene and the extreme end of the story, which is too few and far between to function as a proper goal for Stark. You can argue that his goal is to find the cure to his blood toxicity to keep himself alive, but he is only actively working toward that goal for less than 5 minutes, most of which is spent on a gag with Captain America's shield. Then he cures himself with such ease, all tension and conflict is completely killed. SO that can't be his goal, either. Hell, he spent more time driving around for the Audi commercial, which ironically meant as much to the remainder of the story as the new power cell - nothing.What is the villain's plan? First of all, who the hell is the villain: Whiplash or Justin Hammer? Hammer simply wants a defense contract, which poses a threat of zero to Stark if he succeeds in getting the contract. Whiplash has a pasted-in motivation that is as weak as a wet noodle. He fights Stark at the racetrack and then spends the remainder of the movie sitting in a room on the other side of the country, not threatening anybody at all (until the very end). It's good that he showed up with a security uniform on the off-chance that Stark would be driving a race car that day. Did anybody see where logic went? So with no villain posing any kind of threat to Stark for the entire second act of the story, and Stark having no goal of his own, we're left with a jumbled mess in the middle of the film. Stark acts out and does nothing remotely interesting or exciting because he simply has nothing else to do. His conflict with Pepper was so manufactured, I could almost hear the clatter of an assembly line every time they were together. It was entirely non-emotional, and because of that, I couldn't care.The hero and villain don't even encounter one another at all in the second act of this movie! They are off on their own doing boring crap instead.Nick Fury shows up and drops information in Stark's lap instead of Stark actually finding out for himself. Then Fury is basically gone for the remainder of the movie. Whatever the hell Scarlett Johansson's character's name was served no purpose at all. Why were these characters even in the movie? I know Scarlett was in because she got to wear tight leather and kick ass, which I personally loved, but I would appreciate it a bit more if it was somewhat story-related. Of course, you need a story first.You can argue that Scarlett had to stop Whiplash from maintaining control of the War Machine suit, but I don't even know how Whiplash gained control of it to begin with! We are never presented with that information. And if he can control War Machine, why not take control of Stark's suit? Hello? Logic? Where did you go? Logic, come back! The climax involves an long fight with drones, which becomes nothing more than robots slugging each other. In the first film, Stark was battling the technology that he created and had to learn to outsmart his opponent because he couldn't outgun him. Here, it's just mindless action. There is no threat of danger. The drones pose a threat as severe as a field mouse. Then Whiplash shows up to a scene where a battle was already fought, and they have another battle that is twice as short as the one with the drones. If you blink, you'll miss it. There is no struggle. No reversals. No tension. No anything.Why can't we have a summer action movie that is both fun and good? You can even site the first Iron Man as an example. What happened here? This movie is a complete joke and a borderline insult.But I think we all know by now that Hollywood only makes sequels because they want money, not because they have a story worth telling...or a story at all.If I didn't see this movie for free, I'd ask for my money back on account of a faulty product.
__label__1 Repeat: There's a turd in the punch bowl! This movie is a microcosm of everything wrong with Hollywood...and, unfortunately, humans in general.You see, in the most basic terms possible...people are, for the most part, stupid. There are far more of these stupid people on Earth than intelligent ones. So, if you want to sell something to these people, like a movie, you need to dial-down the intelligence level of the product. (In this way, Iron Man 2 succeeds!) For instance, let's say you want to sell a product to a group of Sarah-Palin-backing Tea Baggers. You already know, without ever meeting any of them, that this a group of people who supports a brainless political creation, one who doesn't even belong to the Tea Bagger party! (High intelligence there, eh?!) So if you were to invent a t-shirt with a saying on it, with the intention of selling it to a Tea Bagger...would you create an articulate, detailed argument on the t-shirt...or would you create something that appeals to the lowest common denominator? Would your t-shirt say something smart and factual like "90% of Tea Baggers got a tax cut under Obama!". Or would you just put Obama on the shirt with a Hitler mustache?! Which one is going to sell better? Same thing here with "Iron Man 2". A producer COULD spend $200 Million on something highly intelligent and with some redeeming value -- and sell less tickets -- or that same producer could spend the $200 Million on a bunch of special effects, A-list stars and explosions -- and sell more tickets. So, intelligent people (I'm assuming if you have read this much, you're probably more intelligent than most), we get stuck with these sorry excuses for movies all the time! And I, for one, am sick of it! Where does Iron Man 2 go wrong? Where to begin?! First off, Mickey Rourke looks like a feminine version of "Professor Chaos"! Where did they come up with that suit design, the Johnny Weir collection?! And Gwyneth Paltrow? How does she keep getting work?! She's the "Mark Harmon" of actresses! In one scene, she seductively kisses the Iron Man mask -- with no human in it! (Imagine her horror when she read the script for the first time and came across that scene!) I almost felt bad for her...then I reminded myself that she is Gwyneth Paltrow! Next in line for this money-grab excuse of a movie is the usually brilliant Robert Downey Jr. If his performance were any more wooden, his nose would grow when he lied!!In my opinion, there has only been one Comic Book movie worthy of a "10" rating and that was "Batman Begins". Iron Man 2 falls woefully short of that standard. A big step back from Iron Man 1 even. Don't let the fancy CGI and big explosions fool you...this is a clunker! Thank you for reading! JD
__label__1 As a huge fan of fantasy books and films, I had very high hopes for this one... Especially when people said "oh, you liked Lord of the Rings? You'll love this!" The verdict? I now know who *not* to listen to next time. If your tastes are similar to mine, you tend to read the books before watching the movies and you don't really follow particular actors. So, really, I had high expectations for this film - and that might've been the problem... Charlize Theron played the evil queen well but I would've loved it if the film had delved further into the queen's history as several ideas were started but never really explained (I have a decent imagination but I don't really think, as a viewer, I should be entirely responsible for thinking up ways to connect the dots). For instance, why is the Queen able to feel everything her brother feels? Why did her mother decide to give her the spell rather than both her and her brother or just her brother? And why, once we get into the meat (or the attempt at the meat) of the story, did the Queen spare Snow White's life when she didn't yet know Snow White was "the fairest"? And if she did know, all the more reason! Why spare her?? The Huntsman was, I would argue, the best developed character - at least in comparison to the others. At the very least, you knew enough to explain his drinking problem and his bitterness... That said, his wasn't an overly complex character to portray. For exactly that reason, it seemed more than a little ridiculous that the Huntsman *alone* carried the romantic scenes between he and Snow White. For instance, at one point, as he leads Snow White through the forest, he takes a knife to her skirts (apparently he thought they were getting in the way). Snow White stares blankly at the Huntsman and it is only once he says "don't flatter yourself" that you realize the emotion Snow White was supposedly showing was chaste shock. Granted that, perhaps if I was more familiar with Kristen Stewart's acting, I might have recognized what she was portraying, but, on the other hand, I'm more of the mind that I shouldn't need to know your acting style in order to recognize so basic an emotion. This kind of jarring (not in a good way) and unbalanced acting was repeated at the end of the film when Snow White is crowned and the Huntsman enters the room. Looking at Snow White, one sees only a blank yet tearful smile, but when The camera turns to the Huntsman it dawns on you that there was supposed to be some sort of moment passing between them. All in all, the chemistry existed only on the side of the Huntsman, leaving much to be desired from Kristen Stewart's portrayal. And that, of course, brings us to Snow White. The character seems to borrow much from Joan of Arc to the point that one might wonder if she wondered into the wrong film. There is an attempt to develop the character but Ms Stewart seems to be little able to carry the development of what might have been a very strong female character. The only hint of real strength comes with Snow White's battle speech which would've been fantastic except for the utter lack of build up to this newfound strength of character. So, in spite of the best intentions, this moment came across as contrived. If only Kristen Stewart had managed to keep up that pace of energy throughout the rest of the film, it might have been more believable. So, unfortunately, though I had high hopes, I actually found myself rolling my eyes frequently and feeling a bit like I was watching someone show off all his "super awesome" visual effects - which *was* pretty cool... Just not enough to carry a story. In conclusion, if you count yourself as one who likes a good plot, great character development, and strong female leads... Either lower your expectations or skip this one entirely.
__label__1 It's hard to find polite words to describe this movie, but I did start laughing about 2/3 through it, and that's not a good sign as it is not a comedy. With such memorable lines to call together an army as 'fire melts iron and it will writhe inside itself....' Wah?? Charlize Theron - who I had always respected - comes off as a grudgingly aging Real Housewives of Beverly Hills - wait, no - Orange County wearing bad eye makeup and screeching in reality-TV-caliber hissy-fit.... and I had always liked her. Kristin Stewart resembles her MAD cartoon parody. She's able to play the suffering goth waif, but when her character is supposed to play fired up or determined, she comes off more as a high school freshman that is determined to retrieve her math book from the library before the bell rings for class - not too powerful.... And when Chris Hemsworth gives a stand-out acting performance as the most believable character in this manufactured dark 'epic', well.... ya know you're in trouble.... I do admire the writers' ability, however, to cram every cliché that has ever been imagined into this 14-hour, I mean 2-hour story. Please note that I am generous in calling it a story since it actually had no plot. The characters had no depth. I was hoping that they would have done more with the wicked queen as that could have been a juicy part, but she was about as deep as the aforementioned 'Housewives.' The musical score was magnificently inappropriate for the scenes and built up at the oddest times so that one would expect something was about to happen... instead we are presented with a magical deer that doesn't really do anything but has a white aura around it. However, the musical crescendo that accompanies this scene makes you think Something is going to happen (it doesn't). OK - last negative criticism - a fun game would be to take a shot every time one of the actors unexpectedly breaks into a Really bad and unexpected British accent. Just sayin. And now I'll say something nice: the costumes were pretty good - impressive really.
__label__1 I have NEVER posted a review on IMDb before and I'm so sorry to inform you that this movie was so bad, I HAD say something! It might have been watchable but there was absolutely NO way that I could get past Charlize's horrible HORRIBLE British accent! Thank God for her beauty.Next, KRISTEN STEWART was just terrible! How she got the lead in this only God knows! Completely emotionless and a very laughable "pumping up" speech at the end. And WHY oh WHY does she always have her mouth open? Every time she was on camera, she had an absentminded look with her mouth hanging open showing off her horse teeth! Its NOT pretty! It was just too awful to watch this movie, all I could see were Kristen's teeth the whole time.And William? Take him out of the movie and it would have worked out the same! His character was pretty much useless in the movie.
__label__1 With all the hype for this movie and some really good actors (Ian McShane, Chris Hemsworth, Charlize Theron, Bob Hoskins) it was a let down. The writers didn't give Stewart enough lines and lines they did give her were horrid. That speech? That was suppose to motivate people? What the hell? The girl didn't smile at all. And yes I know the movie was set in a dark time, and there is no happiness in the land. But she didn't smile when she was brought back to life nor at the end.Let's talk about the ending. The line Stewart has, "You cannot have my heart." That was it? Really? That's the big ending that you have? You have got to be kidding me. That in no shape or form should have been the last line of the movie.And the love triangle that they still left in tack at the end, it's not that much of a triangle. She doesn't appear interested in either of them. The two men are in love with her, and only one is true love. But you would have no idea that is the case, because there is no sign of emotion on her part.Don't pay to see this movie. Anyone who tells you that Stewart was amazing in this movie, has a very odd definition of, "amazing." She had about 15-20 lines, not including the speech. There wasn't much acting required on her part and it's so blatantly obvious that it seems intentional.
__label__1 Ugh, this movie was disappointing to me! I was waiting the whole time for something to really hit me, and nothing did. The Huntsman only "taught" Snow White one thing. The end was the worst. They never clarify anything. Who does she end up choosing in the end? It could be either dude. The Huntsman wasn't wearing fancy clothes at the end and it looked like he was going to leave, so does that mean she doesn't choose him? I was so confused at the end and mad that they didn't finish the plot. Also, the writers held the awkward scenes out too long and didn't hold important scenes out long enough. The end scene was way too long. I felt awkward sitting there staring at Snow White being queen for 20 minutes. Overall, I felt like it had so much potential, but it failed miserably.
__label__1 There was one thing good about this film: the set/setting. All else was rubbish. The script left much to be desired, and because of this, the acting seemed sub par. Miss Stewart looked like she needed to take some anti-constipation medicine most of the time. Her fight speech near the end made me hope that there was better acting to come in the last 20 minutes or so...The final scene...I was waiting for something to happen, but nothing did. It was boring.I mist admit, after the troll scene, I fell asleep. I never sleep in films, or rather I haven't since All Dogs Go To Heaven 2.
__label__1 I was genuinely excited to hear that Disney was going to make a film about Maleficent, my favorite Disney villain of all time. I was interested in knowing the 'why' behind her actions in Sleeping Beauty, since we never really got to see that. I will say that the cinematography is amazing. I will also say that while Angelina Jolie was not my first choice, she had the look, her costume was spot-on, and there are moments where you can see where she is at least trying to play this role correctly (and really, who could replace Eleanor Audley?). But one thing I've noticed over the past 10-15 years is that animation and design seem to be their main focus, rather than story or character development. In the movie, Maleficent's back story was incredibly rushed. So much for going into depth on why Maleficent is the way she is.This movie does not explain why Maleficent is the way she is. Disney is showing us a completely different character while giving her the same name as Disney's most iconic villain. Now they're trying to say that Maleficent is a misunderstood character who becomes evil. But that never happens. She becomes angry and bitter, but not evil. Maleficent in this movie is not even a misunderstood, sympathetic character. She is a total victim who never becomes evil at all.Oh, she does do one evil thing; she does still curse King Stefan's baby out of revenge. And she has second thoughts about it two seconds afterward. See? Not evil at all. And while I'm at it, I should mention my distaste for the way she cursed Aurora: Disney completely lowered the stakes by having Maleficent utter the words "sleep-like death" and be the one to offer the cure of True Love's kiss. No! It's MERRYWEATHER that counters the DEATH curse in order to save Aurora's life! Oh, Maleficent may say later that she doesn't believe True Love exists, but that's a matter of opinion isn't it? Again, LOWERS THE STAKES.And what was Linda Woolverton thinking when she took King Stefan and the three fairies completely out of character and gives them a complete 180 in order to make Maleficent look good? If you're going to show us the point of view of a famous villain, it's okay to give them layers and gray areas in order to make them more interesting and multi- dimensional, even to show they weren't always evil. But NOT to say they were never evil at all; that just completely defeats the point of the character! Same with the good guys; they may have their own flaws, show that they have their own prejudices, or that everything they did wasn't perfect. But NOT to say "the good guys were really EVIL OR STUPID!"The fairies, Flora, Fauna, and Merryweather (I refuse to call them by their new names) are NOTHING like they were in Sleeping Beauty, and this is a big deal. In Sleeping Beauty, say what you will about their flaws but their ultimate motivation was keeping Aurora SAFE. At least they tried, even if they failed! Maleficent (2014) portrays them as nothing more than stupid buffoons who only care about saving their own skins. Aurora was just a means to an end for them; they have no relationship with her like they do in the original. The movie also took away their own personalities, so they are no different from each other. I can't even keep track of which fairy has which name! Watching them on screen with everything they say or do was as cringe worthy as I expected it to be. King Stefan has to be one of worst written villains I have seen in a while. He has no real motivation for what he does; we see him as having nothing in the beginning, and then the movie glosses over his relationship with Maleficent in order to "get to the good part" where he steals her wings in order to be king. After that, he wages war on Maleficent for cursing his daughter, and yet he only looks at Aurora as afterthought property. Why is he even after Maleficent then? What else has she done to him other than cursing his daughter?Elle Fanning as Aurora was very impressive. I do think she gave the character more of a personality that was lacking in the original, and she stole the film in every scene she was in. Unfortunately, that wasn't enough to save the movie, nor were Maleficent's interactions with Diaval, as enjoyable as they were. And of course, Maleficent does not turn into a dragon in this movie. I have to ask; why, Disney? You knew how loved of a villain Maleficent is, and her being a dragon is one of the many reasons why. Also, we live in an age where technology and special effects are abundant; you didn't use the opportunity to see how your most iconic villain looks as a dragon when done with live-action CGI? Why would you waste a perfectly good opportunity like that? Besides the fact that Maleficent is not evil in this film, she also is very wimpy and pathetic. She can't do ANYTHING. When we see her fight an army at the beginning, all she does is fly around and slap a few soldiers with her wings. The tree monsters did most of her fighting for her. In Sleeping Beauty, she could transport herself to another place in a matter of seconds, she could shoot lightning from her staff, and she could transform into another form other than her own. She didn't do any of that in this movie. Just like with Alice in Wonderland, Disney wasted a perfectly good opportunity to effectively adapt their animated work to the live-action screen. Maleficent may not be the absolute worst movie I've seen, but it's definitely in my bottom list now.
__label__1 Let me start by saying that Maleficent has been a personal favorite of mine when it comes to Disney villains. Throughout her many interpretations, she has simply been Evil (yes, with a capital E). So forgive me if this review is a bit of a rant.In this adaptation, she is reinterpreted as a good fairy (because she's apparently not a human sorceress anymore?) that simply has a hissyfit. She is certainly not evil - just angry for a little while. She even ends up becoming a Godmother??Even King Stephen's character is butchered. Why does he go insane over her? If he were really the bad guy, why wouldn't he have killed Maleficent when he had the chance? What possible reason does he have for being indifferent about the welfare of his daughter?Speaking of Aurora, it's worth mentioning that she is relatively alright, but still not too close to her original character. A petty aesthetic thing about her is that her hair and eyebrows are not the same color, which is really distracting. Additionally, they rehash the concept from Frozen, which is that 'True Love' doesn't have to be from some man. If this trend continues from Disney, all we'll see is sisterly/Godmotherly/family love movies where Romance is thrown out the window because it apparently doesn't end with a "happily ever after" anymore.Overall, this film was simply horrible if you respected Maleficent as a villain. If you did like Maleficent as she was, I don't recommend seeing this movie. Even if you like the idea of there being no such thing as Evil, I urge you not to see this movie. Don't support the people who made it.
__label__1 ***Spoliers may be listed below****Maleficent is a an iconic villainous role. She is one of Disney's best characters cast from the dark side and when I saw the trailer I succumbed to the beauty they inlaid using Jolie as the sinister evil fairy. I was seduced to believing that I would be lured into a world of evil and treachery. I wanted to see how evil was born and vengeance would be enacted. I wanted to be able to bond with this evil force and be drawn deep into darkness, rooting for the bad girl. I knew it would be filled with beautiful scenes and Disney magic, but what I did not anticipate that the greatest treachery would be the film itself. Jolie can most definitely embrace evil and the moments when she is allowed to succumb to the full force of Maleficent it is beautiful. Once you add in Goldie Locks however, you get a recipe for disaster. Suddenly I might as well be in a world of pink pixie dust, leprechauns and unicorns because this beautiful villain is disgraced into playing a role of a misunderstood black hearted fairy who really loved the doe eyed giggling Aurora. Hell hath no fury than a woman scorned, this should have been the driving force behind the film. The beginning scenes of a youthful Maleficent should have been nixed to allow more time to build a love story that was even remotely believable. To fall from grace the betrayal has to be tangible and dripping with poison. It must be something more than just a monologue infatuation and stolen wings. They said years passed and yet I felt nothing of a bond or great love that would give birth to Maleficent's destiny.In Disney's Rapunzel the "mother" figure who raised Rapunzel from a baby never fell in love with the child as a daughter. She was still greedy, evil and dedicated to her path. So why must the world's most wonderful villain turn to a soft hearted Godmother of a vapid child. I know Disney is trending this "don't bet on the prince" idea and that's fine I support that, but really...they thought this was "no truer love." If they think the king suffered by simply being tortured with the countdown till his child's demise then they are sadly mistaken. That was child's play. A woman changed by betrayal to the dark side has more ideas in her play-book that can make a man suffer. Madness would have been the king knowing that Maleficent knew the entire time where Aurora was hiding. Maleficent should have been sending him snippets of hair or visions of his daughter with the raven peering down at him while he slept. He should have been physically and mentally destroyed, a raving lunatic. I would have rather liked to see a double treachery in the story. That only the raven knew all along where Aurora was and hid it from his mistress. We could watch the anger burn and grow within Maleficent because she wasn't able to find the child for 16 years. That in the interim the raven would randomly turn into human form and it would have been those two that fell in love and the tragic day that Maleficent discovers her location through some fool's errand played by the three dopey fairies guarding her, absconds with the child and let's the curse play out its course. Then I would have a mega battle scene at the edge of the forest against the king, let her have her righteous moment when she takes his life all the while the king knowing his daughter is stuck in endless slumber with no hope of her being saved. Then during the battle the raven after escaping the battlefield leaves Maleficent's side to try and wake Aurora. When Maleficent discovers her minion's treachery the pain and anger at being betrayed for a second time by her own kind would fill her from the pit of her stomach up through her spine and a black fire filling her eyes transforming to the great dragon and an epic battle of good and evil which will lead to her glorious death! That would have at least been something!Then they could have there happier ever after. Then all those still shots of Maleficent looking like a falling angel in the glimmering sunlight would have been more picturesque, more visually twisted. Overall, I feel I paid $15 dollars for another movie funded by the Prozac and Xanax manufacturers that spread fallacies that evil fairies are really good, vampires are not evil blood suckers and werewolves make great best friends. It's a snooze and a travesty. If you love the traditional iconic role of Maleficent remain in darkness and forget the lies the trailer told you for the glorious black dragon is covered in daffodils and pink tutus in this film.
__label__1 If you like fairy tales and believe in love then you'll hate this film. It's beautifully filmed and well acted by Angelina Jolie, but the story is so over the top with the male hatred it becomes ludicrous.By the end of the film I just started laughing at how insane it was. Made me think the writer just had to be a woman and she must have suffered the worst break up in history, or else she just really hated men.I was looking forward to seeing this film ever since it was teased in theaters. Now I wish I had my money back.Some may say this film is like Frozen. That's only if we discovered Christoff was actually in league with the evil Prince and Olaf was their spy.
__label__1 Last year, I made the horrible mistake of paying and wasting my time to watch Frozen in theaters because I thought it would be a great Disney classic (like Tangled). Finally, I can say that something good has come out of watching the overrated trash that is also known as Frozen. Thanks to my terrible experience with Disney's Frozen, I read the entire plot for this movie before watching it. Thankfully, I ended up saving a few bucks as it was evident that this movie, like Frozen, was not worth paying to watch. Maleficent was basically a non-animated, non-musical version of Frozen. Apparently Disney ran out of ideas and decided to regurgitate the ideas from Frozen with different characters! WONDERFUL. As expected, the main point was a rehash of Frozen's "true love between women is better than true love between a man and woman" because it sells well. After this movie, I can officially say that Disney has completely lost its magic. We are now to believe that dream guys don't exist. In fact, all men are either extremely evil or just stupid. What happened to the brave Prince Charming in classic Disney stories? Disney has deserted them and has decided to start making more 'realistic' movies nowadays and by 'realistic', I mean movies with strong, independent females who are clearly superior to the men. Disney's recent movies make me question whether they are even supporting the concept of 'true love' or dreams anymore. I grew up in a time where little girls could dream of finding their kind and classy Prince Charming. BUT WAIT. The people at Disney had an epiphany: having high expectations for guys is BAD. Instead, let's encourage little girls to dream of being BFFs with a sister who ignores her for years or becoming her father's worst enemy's god-daughter instead! I'm just thankful I don't have to grow up watching these lame Disney movies.I truly find Disney's efforts in reversing its reputation of true love's kiss just pathetic. Hmm... cynicism in fairy tales? Just what we need. As a classic Disney lover, count me out!Just a few comments:1) Prince Phillip used to be my FAVORITE Disney prince, but here, I guess he's just another tool used by feminists to shove their message down our throats.2) Maleficent DOESN'T turn into a dragon. Yup, you heard me. What's the point of the movie then, you ask? I have no idea. Also, as you have probably already guessed, there's no intense battle between Prince Phillip and Maleficent-as-a-dragon either. Just splendid.3) WHY ON EARTH IS KING STEFAN THE VILLAIN? He was infatuated with Maleficent and only married Queen Leila to take over the kingdom?! What on earth has Disney come to?!?!?! This movie is an insult to Disney's Sleeping Beauty. Stefan>Maleficent. #TeamStefanforlife4) Last, but definitely not least: what's up with trying to blur the line between good and evil? (Yes, Frozen, I'm also looking at you.) This is by far my biggest issue with recent Disney movies. I'm sure Walt Disney is rolling in his grave. (Actually, since he was cremated, perhaps I should say that his ashes are turning in his burial plot? Either way, you get the idea.)"Of all the stirring legends of the triumph of good over evil, none has ever been so inspirational to me as Sleeping Beauty." - Walt DisneyI hate to say it, but Disney is dead. Walt Disney, however, will forever live on in our hearts.
__label__1 The movie is not worth, keep your kids from seeing this movie unless your want them to be disappointed and very confuse. Is a terrible change of something that was a beautiful master piece. Incredible to see and believe that the own owner of the Sleeping Beauty (Disney) is destroying what everybody has come to love for generations. I was very looking forward to see the movie since Disney has a good record on movies, although some of the last one has not been very good, including this one. But for example if you saw Frozen you though Disney is back to creativity and beautiful long lasting history that passed thru time. This movie Maleficent is not one of them, you won't be attract to even repeat it nor less read it to your daughters as a bed time story Maybe if Disney Management could use the imagination so much they promote to young ones they could it come up with a new history no one has ever heard before and could sell it. But for what reason will Disney Corporation will destroy what is already a proving time after time years after years mom to girl, princess to princess beautiful story, where the Prince rescue the Princess, The King Father and Queen Mother love and protect their daughter and the bad witch lose and is destroy by the goodness. And them the Prince and Princes Leave Happily Ever After. If only Mr. Walt Disney were alive to see of what His Disney World has become.
__label__1 What on EARTH are the people who have raved about this film watching? Anything other than a co-ordinated, presumably paid, campaign of solicited positive reviews seems improbable to me.I was really looking forward to seeing this film. I loved the opening movie of this new take on the franchise for it's original and thoughtful way of kick-starting an updated 21st century imagining for the birth of sentient apes. I read Pierre Boulle's "Monkey Planet" in the 70's, and loved the original series of movies (even the naffer, later ones after "escape"). This may be largely influenced by my youthful age at the time and general love of science fiction.I have no problem with the willing suspension of disbelief or escapism. A film doesn't have to make perfect sense in "the real world" for me to appreciate it. What i do have a huge problem with, however, is the lazy and cavalier way this movie utterly cuts loose from the premise so carefully set up in "Rise", and which i was intrigued to see explored further in this plot less, pointless travesty.There is so much wrong with this movie that i am simply unable to catalogue it, however, here are a few pointers.......1) it is set just 10 years after "rise". Yet, in this time, the West Coast of America has in the main turned into jungle. Old petrol stations are shown looking as overgrown and integrated into the greenery as various Inca ruins look today, surrounded by mature trees that tower above them.2) There is a massive population of smart apes who can use sign language, and some talking apes living in the jungle. Far more than the indigenous population of the west coast could ever explain (though only (count 'em) one Orangutang, called Maurice, in the film's only nice touch - a nod to Maurice Evans who played Dr Zaius in the original). He, at least, can also write, scribing "Ape not kill ape" etc on rocks, which the baby apes can presumably read??? Are you chuckling yet? In just ten short years since "rise", 100's of thousands of years of evolution have been spread liberally, though very unevenly, across this vast ape population, who presumably flew over to the states when they heard how cool the west coast was to hang out at these days. Though, even the apes who can't talk yet, sort of grab that extra bit of evolution needed to get a bit shouty when some "dramatic" piece of "plot" development spurs them individually on....Actually, i am losing the will to go on, since i would run up against the 1000 word limit long before i ran out of ire at the lazy, trite, inconsistent, banal, clichéd "plot" so i will limit myself to one more observation.3) once the apes grab automatic weapons, as they invariably must, they become instantly proficient in their use and have the supernatural ability to summon UNLIMITED AMMUNITION from the same mysterious realm that transported them all in, forged their tree dwellings and bypassed Darwin so succinctly. Plus, they get the ability to put tanks on autopilot.And i didn't even start on the humans tale.....what the hell was Gary Oldman thinking of, appearing in this pile of chimp manure. Or the overblown schmaltzy soundtrack, which "helpfully' illustrates important emotional, or dramatic "events" in the film.Truly, this is an experience beyond parody. As Charlton Heston would undoubtedly have commented to the director and writers of this movie "You maniacs! You blew it up! Ah, damn you! God damn you all to hell"1/10 for very fluid CGI, though in 2014 i begin to question whether this warrants any points, such is the accepted state of the art?
__label__1 After watching the 'not too bad' Rise of the Planet of the Apes, the 8.3 out of 10 rating is what made me think this film might be worth going to see at the cinema. I mean, if it was a bad film it couldn't get such a high rating, right? Well God knows who on earth is giving this such a high rating because it is a very poor film, even with my low expectations after the first film, which was mediocre (but a lot better than Dawn).In Dawn, humans have mostly died out. Then some humans (who were apparently living in their hundreds just down the road from the apes, despite the apes claiming they haven't seen a human in over 2 years) stumble upon the apes' den in the forest. The humans want access to the dam that the apes have built their home around.There are some good humans and some bad. There are some good apes and some bad. There is some betrayals and then war breaks out. It's all very, very, VERY predictable and we've seen it all before many, many times. There really is nothing new or interesting here. I mean, yeah OK it's an old 'one side against the other' story but Jesus man, if you want to keep the audience interested you've got to do something a little different! Every element of this film, including the subplots, have all been done before and it has taken no talent to write this story. All of the characters are bland and I really just wanted all the humans shot, good or bad, so that I wouldn't have to suffer their inane conversations.I had to give this a 1 because it was so dull, so pointless, so unoriginal, so bland and a total waste of time.
__label__1 I am sorry, but this is one of the worst movies I have watched... ever. I normally check IMDb for good films and get them from the video store to watch. However when this got a 5 star rating from various reviewers, I decided I would actually go to the movie theater. What a waste of time. Sitting next to one of my friends, I could guess what was going to happen before it happened, literally, throughout the movie.There were multiple to name, however, but there were two that struck me as the most cliché, and forced me out of the cinema to take a toilet break (which I never do when watching a movie at the cinema). The first was when the power was turned back on and the horrible acting protagonists moved to a store which is know overrun by trees and vegetation. A guy puts on a song and I said to my friend, "If they start dancing, I'm leaving." I subsequently left. Another cliché (and extremely annoying) moment was when the main human (somehow not Gary Oldman who had about 4 minutes screen time!) had to run back to get Caeser some supplies (he'd been shot) and I guessed, "hey, Caeser's son who is the only ape against the new leader not tied up for loyalty, will meet him and ignore him". It just sucked. Sometimes people say "that was 2 hours of my life I'll never get back",well for me,that was 2 hours of my life I'll never get back!Not joking! Highly unrecommended!
__label__1 I loved the first part. It was fun. So, naturally my expectations for the second movie was high. That, and a metascore of 88 on the first day, naturally, I expected a masterpiece. But what i saw was just awful. The first few scenes have no dialogues, it's all sign language, with a bit of monkey sound here and there(60% of the film, actually). That puts you to sleep right away. There are no awe inspiring scenes, not one frame of amazing graphics. The "emotions", well, didn't work for me.Story? Okay. Humans want to repair a dam nearby so that they can get electricity, Caesar allows them to work, and asks other monkeys to help. Meanwhile, mean monkey Koba goes to Human place and sees a bunch of weapons. So, it comes back, attempts to kill Caesar and then starts a war with the humans. Climax? Meh.Sincere advice, don't watch this. Franco and the cute little monkey, in the first part entertained me. This one put me to sleep.
__label__1 Really disappointed with this Josh Hartnett is a great actor and has been great in Penny Dreadful But this is not a film for him, Terrible story line and low budget ... How did the ring end up in a ship for start. Josh Hartnett must have signed for this very drunk at a party me thinks to do this when his acting skills are so better than a film like this. Please Josh don't put us through this again!!!! Lets have more Black Hawk Down and Penny Dreadful as he is totally better than this production lots of silly mistakes and why make it worse by trying to make him Scottish some people can pull off accents but he cant he sounded a cross between a posh Irish/ Scottish man, Who's idea was that? So overall very UN impressed... Not again please JH
__label__1 This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. I've seen thousands of movies and some really, really bad ones. However, I really don't think I've seen one this bad on so many levels. Hell I like some bad movies if they provide some kind of entertainment along the way. This one just lacks any kind of entertainment in any kind of shape or form. I won't get into the acting or photography - that's apparent. Neve Campbell was originally cast to play Laura Fennel but dropped out due to pregnancy. I'll bet she is saying to herself now, "THANK GOD I got pregnant!" I mean I am a man and right now I'd rather be pregnant that watching this movie...
__label__1 No. This is absolute nonsense, a disgrace towards the very idea of what a good film should be. The story of the 47 Ronin has been told with great sensitivity, artistic excellence and masterful story telling by several Japanese producers and directors. When told straight up it is an incredible story of loyalty, revenge and the intrigues and incredible richness of ancient Japanese life and culture. The very idea that this incredible story could be "Kanued" and turned into a pointless and tasteless Hollywood film is frankly disgraceful. I have been a fan of the many outstanding films made by Japanese film makers over many decades. Many of the greatest films ever made were made by these craftsmen, artists, actors, producers and directors. The story of the 47 Ronin is a great human story that should not be tampered with like this. The real tragedy here is that the original story, based upon actual historic events, is such a great story that there is no reason to "adopt" or "adapt" it. Telling it straight up is the only way to go. I have to admit I am furious at this shallow and trumped up farce. Why would any honorable film maker want to create this vulgar and senseless farce about such a great story. Is the film revenge from talentless producers and writers for their inability to tell a story so beautifully told by the Japanese themselves? Is the film in fact a racist attack against the Japanese film industry? The basic perversion of this story by these actors and film makers has some subversive reason for existing. Perhaps we can hope that the many fine historians, critics and analysis's of film can help us understand this sad and terrible exercise in arrogance and truly yellow excrement of film making, over time.
__label__1 This movie is god awful I felt like scratching my eyes out after watching this movie its as if someone tried to make a pearl harbour remake and duct tape bits and pieces of film together to make a believable work of art. I would not even call this art its a catastrophe of cinematography this is amateur work. All the Japanese actors speak engrish (some might be Chinese)and put Neo as the hero of the movie.It feels a mess, they tried to adapt a real life 47 ronin story, make it into a romantic tragedy and turn it into mythological. It would be fine if they stuck to history or make it a movie on its own. Might as well change the ending if most of the movie is made up.I wouldn't even recommend it even for a b grade movie it should be scrapped. The dialogue is god awful, plot, acting, directing, cg etc everything is bad I cant even think of any good points the action is meh only brief nothing great. With or without Keanu Reeves this movie would still be bad.
__label__1 I wouldn't have wasted time writing about this, errr, "movie" but I was scandalized at seeing the positive reviews (who writes this stuff?!) and the impossibly high score on IMDb, so I felt that my duty as a responsible human being is to warn the unsuspecting victims. This "movie" is a textbook example of how not to shoot films. Horrible on every conceivable level. Horrible is too weak of a word. It's WAY beyond horrible, a new word is needed. The acting is ridiculously bad, which is of course to be expected from Mr. Stoneface Mumble Reeves. (His previous abomination, "Man of Tai Chi", has to be seen to be believed). The bad guy was even worse, as impossible as it sounds. The love interest and the bad witch - almost at the same level. Masterfully bad. It takes serious dedication to get THAT bad, I **** you not. The dialogue was the dumbest, flattest, emptiest random bunch of words ever. It works as a comedy, though, but somehow I vaguely suspect that this wasn't intentional. The director should be banned from making films ever again. Dude, just... don't, please. The people who wrote the "screenplay" should be sent to work the land somewhere in Texas and never be let near a computer again. Or a pen. Or a sandpit and a stick. Horrible editing, too. Surprisingly enough, the DP was probably the only guy on set who knew what was he doing. A couple of mildly interesting shots shine like pearls in dung. The worst thing is the complete lack of respect for Japanese culture and tradition. Sincere and heartfelt condolences to any Japanese person reading this. You know how Americans usually portray non-Americans? Well, it's way worse than that this time. Pretty much the only entertaining moments were when, out of mind-numbing boredom, I started making farting sounds in the middle of the tons of meaningful-intense-long-gaze situations. After that I slept for 20 minutes, missing (according to my gf) the final fight scene and waking up just in time for the grand finale. And I NEVER sleep during a movie, out of respect for the people who put so much effort in it. Couldn't care less this time, I just wish I could get these 2 hours of my life back somehow. GOD, what a ****ty movie. Can't believe they spent so much money on a pile of utter and complete crap. Who greenlighted this?! Were they smoking crack or just stupid ?! Go see it. Really. Motion pictures this horrible are a delightful rarity to be savoured, if you are into that kinda thing. I just know that my all-time TOP 5 WORST list has a new entry. Hell, it kicked down the door and burned the house down. Now, having fulfilled my civil duty I will just erase this thing from my memory.
__label__1 Too many cliché images of Black/Dark = Evil and Reddish/Warm = Good. More like a Disney cartoon for kids than a serious movie. The Villains are too cliché in their need to kill and murder everyone, and the Good Guys too cliché in their need to protect the smallest farmer (as Samuari of Feudal Japan - not speaking of their "Ronin" status later in the movie). Ridiculous costumes for certain characters do the rest. Cliché Romance between underdog and high ranking woman. Its the 101 of movie making, no surprises, no tension, predictable to the end. The action is also very standart with no surprises or anything remotely noteworthy - standart swordsplay boringly choreographed. Yes Keanu Reeves plays a more "supporting" character which often helps since he is one of the worst actors I know. But any scene with him certainly does not help this movie.The movie feels more like either a Kids movie (age 8 to 16) or like a over budgeted film project of some undergrads learning 101 of cliché cinematography and movie writing.avoid or watch when you have no better options and are bored out of your skull (and as such I count any B&W Japanese Samurai Movie)Great material butchered by 101 of Hollywood movie making.
__label__1 Captain America lacks humor, engaging plot and script, relying solely on special effects and promotions to get box office honors! And to make matters worse, it dragged on forever! It was a silent audience for the entire 2 hours, not a chuckle was heard, and when it was finally over, the audience just walked out the door with not a soul staying for credits or musical score.From start to end, this was just a mish-mash of unengaging computer imagery, with so many scenes of shoot-em-up violence, shattered glass and chaos that it got boring within the first half hour.Camera work was shaky, editing poor with overly long scenes, and actors either miscast or just reading their lines without impact.And if there was a music score, I sure don't remember it. And good acting just wasn't there. The CaptainAmerica actor used a faint persona drawn from Tom Cruise, who, with his intensity and charisma, would have raised the movie to a higher level. His strong woman cohort, played by Scarlett Johanson, was especially lackluster, with her only notable expression being frowning occasionally. And, casting an aged Robert Redford as villain was poor casting extraordinaire! Redford lacked energy, intensity, and physical presence as an actor.If you enjoy watching a Hollywood-style extravaganza with 90% special effects and actors sleep-walking through their lines, Captain America is for you! Even our 14 year-old for whom this movie was probably made, said "we should have gone to Spiderman!"
__label__1 A special effects extravaganza with a plot as thin as a wet tissue, best describes this "moving picture." (I hesitate to use the term.) And move it does—all the time, all over the screen, and all over what svelte plot there is.In essence, this film is a remake of the classic 1957 film Shootout at the OK Corral. Today's film mise en scene in current day and instead of six-shooters we see futuristic weapons that could wipe out mankind/womankind/etc.. There is the good guy and his sidekick (naturally), the good/bad/good female, the hard-as-nails. know-it-all top gun; and, of course the eeevil big-time manager who plans to rule the world. Pleeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeease!.Here's this fellows scheme: his cadre has pinpointed millions of people to be terminated because they are miscreants, old, sick, stupid, nonproductive, etc. As a result, the remaining folks will live in a Utopian society under his control. Does this sound familiar circa, 1933- 1945?At times, the dialogue is so trite and spoken so ineptly that I slid down in my seat; embarrassed for the patrons in the theater with me who had to listen and see this tripe. There is not one character in this charade of a film that engenders empathy—no one with whom we can identify, no situation or location that renders true. It's impossible to willing suspension disbelief in this film—the audience's keystone to a successful moving-picture.This film is nonsense, idiotic, stupid, and a waste of time. Save you money. Stay home.
__label__1 The Polar Express. Director Robert Zemeckis, I love Back to the Future, Forrest Gump, Contact, and Who Framed Roger Rabbit (NO QUESTION MARK AFTER THAT MOVIE TITLE!!). And Tom Hanks, one of my favorite actors. The reviews of this movie were almost unanimous saying that this is an instant holiday classic. Ebert & Roeper give it two ENTHUSIASTIC thumbs up! Even Ebert's written review gave it a full four stars! Wow... OK... this I gotta see! But wait... the motion capture used looks really weird. Hmm... maybe I'm NOT so interested in seeing this anymore."Well, you comin?" says the train conductor to the boy in The Polar Express. The boy is reluctant at first, and the train begins on its course without him. The boy soon changes his mind and jumps aboard just in the nick of time. Now, most of you have probably decided to not jump aboard this train and wait for the TV Train or Rental Express (hee hee, I'm so witty and clever). I, on the other hand was like the boy who was skeptical at first, but jumped on to see what the fuss was all about. I just wasted $10 and two hours of my life. I can't even begin to explain the pain in my stomach. The Polar Express was so painful to sit through it's not even funny. There's no story. There's no pay off. You sit there through these series of events and you wonder "is there any point to all this?" It'd be one thing if the scenes were entertaining... but they're not.This movie is void of any emotion, any soul, any ounce of plausibility, and most of all: any fun. This movie is NOT FUN. And let's talk about the way these characters look for a second. Saying that it's the same technology (motion, I'm sorry, "PERFORMANCE" capture) used to make Gollum is a real shame because Gollum was Believable!!! Photo-realism just does not translate well in this medium. You're using animation, why not design the characters to be more expressive? Or why not just film it all with real actors? They certainly COULD have. We as people know all too well how we walk, talk, interact with things. Seeing it on the screen done unconvincingly is not impressive. Caricatures done convincingly is all the more believable, as The Incredibles has proved. The result of The Polar Express now is as if they took corpses of dead children and turned them into puppets. They're moving and talking, but where's the heart? Where's the soul? That's what we're seeing on the screen. UGH UGH UGH UGH UGH! This movie is so horrible! There's a scene early in the movie where the boy takes a girl's train ticket from her seat because she got up and left it. He wants to give it to her but you sit there going "why??!" Just leave it.. she's coming back! He of course loses the ticket and "adventure" ensues. And then there's a boy who's stuck in the back of the train all the time, and they bring him hot chocolate, but he can't come up and join the rest of the kids? And then there's this annoying "know it all" kid with the voice of a 35 year old. It's all so very disturbing. Oh and there's songs! One girl goes into the back of the train where the lonely kid is. He's singing a song to himself. And then she interrupts and joins in! They end the song as they're holding hands, looking into each others eyes as if they were lovers. Very awkward. I won't even go into details about the song about serving hot chocolate while waiters dance around the train. "keep it hot keep it hot!" The one scene where Tom Hanks slides on his knees with his arms stretched up in the air has to be one of the most memorably BAD scenes in the history of bad scenes. I have to stop now or I'll just kill myself. I need to watch something crappy to cleanse the palette. Yes... crappy is better than The Polar Express. "The one thing about trains, it doesn't matter where you're going, what matters is deciding to get on."Don't get on this one. For the love of God, I have decided for you! This is just another film taken from a children's book stretched incredibly thin into movie form. It happened with the Grinch and The Cat in the Hat and those were horrible also. But who can blame them? I bet if I took the book, The Berenstein Bears' Too Much Junk Food, and turned that into a feature film, it'd probably be pretty dull also. But at least... there'd be a story and a point, which is what The Polar Express is so lacking of.
__label__1 No wonder Will Smith didn't return; he must've read the script. IF there ever was one.I cannot recall a film I have seen in five years that I didn't think to myself: "I HATE THIS MOVIE" over and over throughout. And that started approximately five minutes in and all the way to the end.Independence Day: Resurgence was one of the most horribly spliced together movies I think I've ever seen. Scenes just began and abruptly end and then back and forth to the point you have no clue where anyone was or cared who lived or diedincluding all the countless self- sacrifices. And apparently, I'm not alone as probably one billion people die in this film and yet, barely anyone blinks an eye and even continue on with their lazy jokes that never work.The movie takes place in today's time, 20 years after the 1996 attack and believe me, if you didn't know the original took place in 1996, they'll remind you 12 times. The acquired alien technology changed the face of the Earth, but made everyone even dumber than before. Sure enough, the aliens return and supposedly, humans are ready, but not really and things kind of, sort of fall into place to try and combat the returning aliens. (I wrote that sentence all over the place and if you're unfortunate enough to see this, you'll understand why.)Gone was the heart of the original. Vanished were characters with depth. And worst of all, a coherent story was lost someplace – if it ever existed. The only two things that remained were some of the original's characters who didn't even seem to want to be there and the speeches in the most inopportune times with zero meaning or punch.I did laugh out loud at more than a few scenes due to their absurd attempts to make us care and at other times, I flipped off the screen on how continuously angry I got. The movie was so ridiculous at times, I kept expecting Adam Sandler to show up with some of his just as lame jokes and fall-down pranks. But even he and his sordid career are, laughably, above this mess.Not only should this movie be avoided, but it should be pulled from theatres immediately or, at least, come with a warning: If you loved the first one. Go home and watch that. Forget this ever existed.***Final thoughts: "We had twenty years to prepare. So did they" is the movie poster's tagline. I disagree. The real tagline should've been: "We had twenty minutes to both write a script and edit the film. We apologize."
__label__1 It has two good CGI scenes, which you can watch at home some months from now. The rest is garbage. The movie was cut in pieces that do not make any sense. But the complete edition is probably not better. It is BORING, and eminently stupid. Characters explain to the audience the basic plot five minutes after exposition time. It is an indictment of what film executives think about people. It is terrible. This movie needs to bomb, it needs to crash, it must be the point where the madness of the vapid blockbuster ends. Watch again any episode of "Game of Thrones" instead. Again, I repeat this point: it is not even fun in a dumb way. It treats you as a very slow person. You can feel the people responsible for this laughing at you. Make it stop. Don't go to the cinema.
__label__1 How stupid do the script writers think the viewing audience is?If the movie were made for four year olds, it would be an insult to their intelligence....Great first 10 minutes or so then we are expected to leave logic and believability behind...Making no sense doesn't seem to bother the director and producers...The sphere can set up a planet to teach all other civilizations how to defend against the bad aliens...and it's credentials for doing so? Their planet got wiped out by said aliens and even the lower intelligence earthlings, using replicated, imitated weapons ripped from the bad aliens can shoot it down over the moon...yeah...great teachers they'll be...The Queen can survive a fusion bomb blast but her shield falls under minor weapon fires...The Queen can control all the alien ships but yeah, let the two hero's craft shoot at her for fun before taking over control...And having all her fighters surround her...I guess to offer her protection...but they just kept flying round and round like an amusement park ride when the two rogue fighters decide to attack her...An ex president's daughter who no longer flies can just commandeer a fighter...to fly alongside her father, who couldn't walk properly in the beginning of the film but can still fly a new age jet...all the air forces around the world obviously overdoing their pilot screening a tad...The list goes on and on...I can't be bothered to write them all down or I might be writing an entire new script or story line...I want my time and money back...as well as compensation for ruining my fond memory of the first film...
__label__1 This is one of those movies where the grown up audience knows after 5 minutes, that the target group is teenagers. Even in the middle of the movie's major crisis, the whole world pauses, as two young characters have to talk intimately, because it is just so important, for she's hot and he's so cute, so the less important end of our civilization will just have to wait.Unlike many famous sci-fi movies, this movie is not true to science at all. If some young script writer thought that it would be "dope" for gravity to be "defeatable", then gravity is "defeatable", whatever that means. Small objects that are hidden can be monitored in detail by the good guys, while objects the size of a continent are completely undetectable. There are dozens of these examples where the movie makes no sense.The humor in this movie has no finesse. Watching it is like being at dinner with the distant uncle who is not funny but keeps cracking jokes, though no one is really laughing but him.Most of the time, the dialogues sound like a wacky parody, in the way Doc spoke with Martin in Back to the Future. They even copied the Doc character so directly, that there is an actual long haired, wacky old man in a lab coat talking in a nutty way while experimenting with sci-fi technology.One thing does work, though, the computer graphics are impressive. Most of the time, the visual and audio effects really shine. It is just sad that an obviously huge gift budget was spent fully on the wrapping, and very, very little was spent on the gift inside.
__label__1 It is true that when you are young, you see movies like the original "ID4" from a different perspective, most often you judge them better than what they really are, and this undeniably is a fact of life. It holds true for most people. Yet, the original movie, even when judged by my 41 years old brain now, without considering the nostalgia factor, and even in all its cheesiness ... still manages to be far far superior from this absolute garbage!This sequel really is a let down of epic proportions, and I felt like I wasted my money. It manages to be what the first movie totally wasn't ...and that can be summed up in one word: BORING. The bad guys ( the aliens ) are laughably stupid - even more than the first time ... the main characters could all be replaced by cardboard cutouts of people and it wouldn't make any difference. Even the CGI is bad... Avoid it at all costs.
__label__1 Same plot as the first, just bigger monsters, extreme CGI and bad acting... Why does Liam Hemsworth have a career??? Only positive thing in this epic t u r d is Jeff Goldblum. He just rocks!To sum up... Its a disaster and I have never had the urge to consider demanding a refund, until now. This is just pure cash cow, because they know is box office due to the franchise.The thing that is even more terrific is that they cliff hanged it, so if its a financial success, then rest assure, there will be a third... God Help Us. God Help Hollywood.have a nice day!
__label__1 Independence Day, which first came out 20 years ago, has a venerable position as one of film's most enjoyable 'guilty pleasure' movies. Yes, it's cheesy. Yes, it's ridiculous. But damn, it looked good and was buckets of fun back then and still is. It didn't need a sequel, but I was surprised to hear when one was in production and was mildly excited at the thought.I didn't expect much, we've moved past being wowed by fantastic CGI (indeed, people seem to appreciate much more the practical effects which are put to good use in certain films and TV shows these days), but I thought it'd be great to tune out and watch an even bigger ship and even more aliens again attempt to take out an extremely patriotic and stoic human race.By the time I left, I didn't know whether to laugh, cry, feel anger, hate, one thing I did feel was ripped off... gone is the charm and appreciable cheesiness of the first film, what we have as a replacement are characters you can't possibly like, let alone root for, inane and predictable self-sacrificial acts that fell flat and generated no emotion whatsoever, scene after scene of horrible one-liners mixed with 'it was great working with you' exchanges of dialogue from the indestructible arrogant young army types and attempts at humour in the face of millions of human deaths, by-the-book disaster film rivalries that turn into friendships which also ended up turning my stomach, boring plot lines that resurfaced again and again which slowed down the pace of the main conflict, are immediately forgettable, add nothing to the story and went nowhere, an alien race whose entire existence is based on militaristic invasion with 20 years to prepare continuously showing their glaring ineptitude at said invasion rather than having humans fight back against insurmountable odds like the first film, a cheap-looking CGI alien queen with a shield that survives a nuclear blast yet can't take a few shots from an aircraft based on the technology from her own race who'd rather chase a busload of kids than shoot down said aircraft firing at her, a coma patient who wakes up after 20 years and can immediately make jokes and walk around with no sign of muscle atrophy whatsoever, a disabled, insane war veteran who can still perfectly fly a jet based on alien technology...I could go on, needless to say if you see this, be expecting every disaster movie trope and cliché with none of the charm and likable humour of the first film, and just try and enjoy the above-average special effects. Aside from that, there's really nothing else there.
__label__1 Alongside Battleship and Godzilla, this movie is among the worst SF movies of all times. Some of the actors can actually act, but not even they can save anything because of the unbelievably bad script. You have to see it, to believe it, true, but it is not worth your time.First, it is very hard for the audience to emotionally relate to any character or event. It is so blatantly clear that actors speak for the audience to "get it" that their dialogue has no meaning other than to document facts we have not seen. And even so, the interesting questions you might have will remain unanswered. The CGI is OK, but its use completely overshadows any meaningful emotion the viewer might have in relation to the events on the screen. It's simply too much and the attachment is impossible.Secondly, the script is bad. I mean really bad. I know I said this before, but there really are no words to describe it. You know it when complete sections of dialogue are lifted from Independence Day (1996) and paced in this one. As they don't fit the characters anymore - or they completely mess up any evolution that might have taken place meanwhile - the "magic" is ruined.Simply stay home, choose another movie, watch Independence Day (1996) again Anything but this!P.S. Watching it I was constantly reminded of low budget movies from the 50's and 60's. Why? Because every cliché imaginable about aliens or relationships is featured in this film.
__label__1 And also, one of the worst sequels ever to be made. The truth is, like some other films, Independence Day: Resurgence didn't have to be made. Why it was made, I can't tell. Perhaps 20th Century Fox needed a to resurrect this brand to compete with other studios. And as the ending makes sufficiently clearly, there's more coming (please, spare us from it!). There's truly nothing to be recommended here: the story is dumb, the script very poor (some lines or scenes are unintentionally laughable), every single joke falls flat, the characters are one dimensional, the performances from the veteran actors could have been phoned in, and those from the young ones are rather stiff and uninspiring. Relationships have no chemistry and one doesn't really care for anyone. Boring is a good word to describe what happens on screen at every turn. There's never any real tension built, nor there is ever a sense of urgency. And they make the mistake of merely making the threat merely bigger (absurdly so; then again, Star Wars has recently stumbled upon that same rock). The film boasts a democratic, all inclusive, multicultural, globalist vibe. It also features a very prominent same-sex relationship from a significant, albeit secondary, character. It may be a SJW dream of a movie, since every requisite box of social justice is checked. In this sense the movie turns out to be quite lofty. If it proves anything, it is this: than the inclusion of such topics, or their filmic depiction per se do not better a film. It may just have the opposite effect, since all felt rather tiresome and fabricated. The movie fails in every department: story, script, acting, soundtrack, editing. But also in special effects. Imagine that! One of the main draws of the original ID4 was, precisely, its SFX. This one also boasts special effects galore, but they aren't of very good quality. It looks like everyone is in front of a green screen all the time. Objects don't have weight to them and all the presentation feels very cartoony. If you stay away from this movie, you will have made yourself an enormous favor. You won't have wasted any money nor two precious hours of your life.
__label__1 There was not one redeeming quality to this movie; in fact, the producers should be force to refund our money. No chemistry, no humor, not one good scene, rather, we spent the ride home listing the top 10 worst scenes only to realize we needed a Top 100 list!There were multiple disjointed scenes where the script writer obviously was not concerned. For example, in the opening scenes, we're told of a world at peace where there had been no wars for 20 years. A couple of scenes, we're treated to a scene where a "warlord" is introduced who appeared anything but peaceful.Bill Pullman needs a cane at the beginning of the movie, near the end, he's a Top Gun pilot willing to sacrifice his life to deliver the package. The list could go on. It really was that bad.Do not waste your time. I was prepared for a mediocre film that was mildly entertaining but rather received a movie that was beyond bad. If you feel you must see it, wait a year and go pick up a discounted copy in a reduced price bin at Walmart.You have been warned!
__label__1 I know the first movie is considered as more of a popcorn flick, but I loved it. I've lost count of the number of times I've watched the first movie. Needless to say, I was incredibly hyped about the sequel.This was the first movie that I ever wanted to walk out on about halfway into the movie. The whole thing is such a rip off of the original, that it's incredibly cringeworthy. The dialogue is laughable and there are a bunch of characters that no one cares about. To be honest, I couldn't even understand the whole story. It was so messed up and they kept trying to re-create scenes from the original movie like those epic speeches(every one of them failed) and trying to fly out of closing enclosures, aliens speaking from a human etc.. Can someone tell what the whole point of the school bus story was? I had no idea why they kept going with it apart from the fact that it was Jeff Goldblum's dad.Overall, this movie is absolute shambles and save some bucks for yourself. It's not worth watching in theatres at all.
__label__1 In an effort to link as many of the old cast with a new crew by creating back and forth mini scenes just adds to the overall feeling of confusion. Add friendly aliens, a drunk boat crew monitoring the status of aliens drilling into the Ocean floor, poor graphics of cities being toasted, and crowded (who's who?) air combat scenes all add to my impression of a overall bad movie.The first Independence Day movie was great. This sequel proves that a bad action movie can put you to sleep. The ending with the Queen alien seeking revenge was a stolen concept from Aliens (1986).I love good science fiction. This is not.
__label__1 I was a big fan of the original movie, with it's humor, great actors, human interest stories and heart. The special effects were top end. I gave it 4 stars at least (The DVD, sadly, left out some important parts, and did not have the theatrical version it advertised). The sequel failed on all points. The actors from the original were truly pathetic. Jeff Goldblum had none of his humor, charm and great acting ability. Bill Pullman had none of the quality of his original performance; I was embarrassed for him. Judd Hirsh was okay, but had only a bit part. The new actors for this sequel were little more than a clique, with little interest generated. The special efforts, even in 3D, were blurred and boring, with zero quality. The darkness of the screen in most scenes ruined what little effort they did make and the 3D was wasted, it added nothing. The original storyline was trashed, with no explanations to explain how the things we saw were occurring (I don't want to give out spoilers here). I'm shocked the same Directors were involved in this disaster of a film. I give it one star, and that's being generous. Don't waste your money and time on it.
__label__1 Even if there were no Terminator or T2, T3 would be a horridly mediocre movie. The original Terminator was an exercise in imagination conquering budget limitations, while T2 showed what could be accomplished if imagination were wedded to an unlimited budget. T3 shows what a tremendous budget with little imagination gets you - a terminator whose unique ability is to make her fingers into sharp points. Whoopee! There are narrative lapses too numerous to mention, such as our non-tech hero operating an atom smasher. Or a heroine who doesn't know exactly what her father does for a living traipsing into the super secret underground & armored military installation where he works. T3 operates best as a self-administered IQ test: if you thought this movie was good, you should seriously consider remedial education.
__label__1 Poor writing and poor directing plagued this film.  The characters simply weren't who they were supposed to be.John Connor (Nick Stahl) who was trained in weapons and warfare from childhood by his mother dealt unflinchingly with the threat of the T-1000 as a 13 year old boy now appears to be a scared and confused drifter who freezes under pressure and exudes none of the confidence or ingenuity he did a decade ago.The T-X (Kristanna Loken) is cartoony.  In place of ruthless efficiency for which the terminators are known she kills sadistically.  Rather then relentlessly pursuing her enemy she seems to saunter and pose in what I can only assume is an attempt to build suspense.   And in the end, she simply isn't that frightening of a villain.Arnold was the biggest disappointment if only because he played the role with far too much of a human feel.  He has emotional conversations with John Connor, appears angry and surprised at times, and has a number of one-liners during action sequences that require far more wit than a machine with no emotion should be capable of.The sound was absurd.  When the terminator or the T-X was hit with something heavy we were greeted by a cartoony "boink" rather than something realistic. The soundtrack also lacked all of the attitude and intensity that truly set the atmosphere for the first two movies.*spoilers*And the continuity errors and unanswered questions ruined any hope of a story the movie may have hadTerminator 2 tells us that terminators (at least stock terminators) can't learn.  Arnie clearly does, after learning and reciting the "talk to the hand" phrase.Terminator 1 tells us that The Terminators were only sent back to kill John as a last ditch effort once the resistance had destroyed the skynet core. Now, Skynet doesn't have a core at all.Why would the US government leave a secret, high grade fallout shelter COMPLETELY unguarded?How did John, Kate, and a 6 foot tall terminator in black leather make it to the command center of a busy high tech military research facility without authorization and while carrying loaded weapons?  And why isn't anyone surprised to see them there until shooting starts?While the T-X can control machines, how can she remotely move the gear shift of a car from park to drive, an action that requires physical interaction?If, as T2 suggests, the concept of skynet was only made possible by the discovery of the pieces of the destroyed terminator from T1, how was it possible in T3 after John Connor destroyed all remnants of the terminators sent back through time?Unfortunately I could go on and on from here.  From the final product it appears as though the writers spent less time on the script for this movie than I did on this review
__label__1 OK, so critically i'm forced to accept that my one star rating could be seen as maybe a bit harsh, the action was OK after all, the film looked pretty enough and the story was genuinely not as slap-dash and floored as we all dreaded it would be. As a stand alone film i could've genuinely forgiven this movie it's quirky sense of humor and cartoonish action sequences (that comedy 'DUNK' noise when Arnie is hit by a truck whilst riding the forklift truck is pure Wylee Kyote). However, that's where we hit the real meat of my problem with this movie, it's not just any random piece of action pie, it's the sequel to terminator 2, a film which even if you don't consider to be the greatest action movie of all time (which i emphatically do), everyone must agree had a certain iconic, macho appeal and tone. Now i accept that for a fairly unknown director, resuscitating such a beloved and successful franchise after such a long time must've been daunting, and i thoroughly expected to sit back in my comfortable cinema seat and watch with joy as the third terminator strained with mighty, piston-like muscles in an effort to avoid being crushed under the weight of its prequels. So you can begin to imagine my disappointment when rather than standing up to its prequels with its chest puffed out, T3 seemed rather to make a camp hand gesture and prance away. In short, my greatest problem with T3 is not that it isn't as good as its predecessors (i mean what is?), it's that it often feels like you're watching a spoofed remake, an impression not harmed by the fact that T3 'shares' most of its basic plot structure with T2. Case in point would have to be the scene in which the terminator seeks to acquire his trade mark leather jacket ensemble, although in previous films this simply seems to be the first outfit he found, in T3 it seems nothing else would do. You can almost hear the writers laughing and congratulating themselves at their sparkling wit, as the terminator is forced to regurgitate his iconic "i need your clothes, your boots and your motorcycle" line... to a male stripper. And the icing on the cake, when the 'unstoppable killing machine' walks outside and puts on the pair of pink, Elton john-style, star sunglasses: and the writers laugh, and the producers laugh and i die a little bit inside.However, the saddest thing i found, watching this movie was not the horrible, gimmick ridden plotting (ooo... lets make this evil terminator a girl!!!!!) that coated each scene, but the much broader plot-strokes that smashed into the terminator mythology like a certain hanging steel girder into a certain skull. Killing off Sarah Conner (the only woman ever created who could've kicked Lt. Ripley's ass) off screen no less, shifting the credit for saving mankind from John Conner (who's become a pussy instead of a super-soldier) to 'his wife?!?'. Its these massive blows that seem to have crippled a franchise that always seemed to have one last movie in it.However, i must freely admit that to most people this movie represents a small slice of action escapism that should warrant at least an hour and a half of you time if not your thoughts. But for me, and anyone else who bothered to learn to spell 'mimetic polyalloy' it's like watching a once proud bear being made to dance in a dirty tutu for the mild amusement of its owners.I always maintain that T2 was one of the saddest movies i've ever seen, at least in that way T3 managed to emulate it.
__label__1 As a fan of Marvel movies I was excited to see Guardians of the Galaxy. However, this movie failed on several levels.It is supposed to a comedy but the jokes are not funny. I genuinely laughed once. Furthermore, one 'joke' was weirdly inappropriate.The story is completely generic. It seems like they just needed some story, any story, as a vehicle for the characters to get together and try to be funny.I wanted to write a review without spoilers but the big set-piece ending of a spaceship crashing into the ground has to be called out. This was done in the Avengers and Star Trek: Into Darkness. To me, it's like directors have to have this '9/11' shot in every movie (big thing crashes into buildings) and it has to stop. It's boring now.The only positive about this movie was the special effects and space backgrounds.It seems that Marvel have figured out punters will pay cash money for any old junk if its wrapped up in special effects and a decent soundtrack. I will approach the next Marvel with extreme caution, and I will not see Guardians of the Galaxy 2.
__label__1 Guardians of the Galaxy is just another mediocre film. Under the pretence of future, it sneaked in embraces of the past. Perhaps it tried to be both, but it was neither a serious film nor a comedy. It failed to trigger any deeper emotion inside me. Its humour was out of context. There were too many characters, most of which were not properly developed. The purposes of existence of those figures were very confusing. I'll comment in detail on the triggering of deeper emotions and the humour in the following 2 paragraphs.Someone commented that the films like the Dark knights series set a standard that superhero films must be deep and thoughtful. That person further commented that this film, Guardians of the Galaxy challenged this standard. I generally don't like dogmas. But here it's not at all about dogmas. It is just the fact that those "deep" ones could trigger deeper emotions, or provoke thoughts, or inspire the audiences, or help the audiences learn something, or help the audiences learn themselves better. By these, the audiences like, think about, involuntarily recall, remember and give high scores for those "deep" films. Of course different people have different opinions on deepness. So, I don't comment on the deepness of Guardians of the Galaxy. Just commenting on triggering deeper emotions, or provoking thoughts, or inspiring me, or helping me learn something or learn myself better, unfortunately, Guardians of the Galaxy did none of these to me. So, it just didn't make me feel that way, that it was one of those all-time great films.Someone commented that Guardians of the Galaxy was not a serious film, but rather, it was a great, light-hearted comedy. Even for this, I don't think I could agree. Great humour exists in context. In the right context, something plain could be hilarious. Out of context, brilliant jokes were just nothing. In Guardians of the Galaxy, too much humour ran out of context. For example, the raccoon said later, that he asked for one prisoner's prosthetic leg was just a joke. What did this convey? It was clever to play such heartless jokes on your partners when it was time to be serious? No. How about it tried to portray a figure, the raccoon, who was unfazed in front of great danger? But then you had to make the situation look dangerous. Even in The Wizard of Oz (1939), the scenes felt more creepy than here in the prison. The prison here felt just like a noisy second-hand market. So, I didn't find the joke funny and didn't know why it was in the film otherwise either. There were many such lines. I knew they were intended to be something to make people laugh, but I just didn't feel that entertained at those improper moments.All in all, Guardians of the Galaxy has no place on the all-time great list. Perhaps it was the last joke it could play, on itself, being put into the Top 250 list. Among those great films, its mediocrity would just manifest itself. Just within the first month of its release, it dropped 20 places on the Top 250 list from the 34th to the 54th. As time goes on, this film will likely drop further when the enthusiasm fades after its initial surge. There are great films, like In the Name of the Father (1993), A Beautiful Mind (2001) etc. They were not on the Top 250 list before, but gradually rose up and emerged into the all-time great list. Just on the contrary, Guardians of the Galaxy will gradually drop out of the Top 250 list.
__label__1 I thought it would only be fair giving this 1 star, even though it's maybe - at BEST - a 4, because this is definitely not worth 8. GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY was a shot I chose to try in god knows how long since I've been to the cinema. This is just another load of Hollywood trash. I had the impression it was innovative, considering the Guardians being pulled out from the bottom of the pile and the whole outlaw thing... but I was wrong...IN THE BEGINNING, what's-his-name is on Earth and it is APPARENTLY '88. The kid's mother dies. OK. Is this meant to be emotional despite the fact I have no attachment to any of these characters yet? OH WOW IT'S THE FUTURE NOW!! I'm sorry; his mother dies, he goes outside and then he gets abducted? What is this supposed to signify? Not to mention it's (obviously) unbelievably and strangely timed, but this is probably an attempt at giving some depth to the main character, but really doesn't do ANYTHING for the major plot of the entire film.The rest of the film was just a bunch of underdogs coming together because they end up in the same space prison (because what happens when you're arrested together is you share a block, not to mention gender is no issue here). Then they fall into this orb situation. What is it? It.. it is this orb.. and it is powerful.. a bit like the cube or something. There was little development in the story at all really, a few changes in direction but no real twists or anything surprising. I don't even know, I was almost asleep half the time. I was constantly checking my watch to see when it was over.So we have hideous CGI here. Ridiculously unprofessional, but I guess I'm not in with the CGI in blockbusters. They have this obnoxious claim to fame with technology it seems; having the ability to do these things doesn't make it cool, it just looks like a video game. Another thing, visually, was the designs. It was just so typical of the action/sci-fi genre in the technology and whatnot, and the characters... very much in the same boat but more-so thrown together effortlessly.Then after that its all EXPLOSIONS - SPEEDING - ADVERTISING - HITTING! In between there's a conceited amount of one liners that made me cringe. The best kind. And in the end we have some false suspense because we know everything is going to be okay.OVERALL: >The comedy was... horrid... >The story was simple. >The characters were lacking in... everything really. -The cinematography didn't even involve cameras. >The soundtrack was a bunch of pop classics chucked together. So what was good about it? The ACTION!!!1111 Wait, no... >The action was too much, unnecessary and clearly there to fill in time. Main reason I even saw this was I received an invitation from some mates. I think I'll try go back to sticking to films with a point. The only point of this was to brainwash and make big bucks.
__label__1 The movie was recommended to me by a friend who saw the reviews and somehow believed those. Huge mistake.To say the movie is childish would be an honor for this movie, I have seen plenty of animated movies which were a huge lot better.The story is dumb and entirely predictable. The characters are almost flat and have absolutely no credibility from either a serious point of view nor from a parody point of view. Acting was also poor.Visual effects were OK and being a 3D movie helped, but that is the only positive thing that I can say about the movie.The theater was half-full but during the entire movie there was not a single time when you could hear everybody laughing hard.The only way I can imagine that so many 9 and 10 star reviews were added for this movie is since all the brainwashed Marvel fan-boys and sock-puppets for the studios somehow managed to overwhelm normal reviewers.
__label__1 I love Marvel. Whether it be X-Men, Thor, The Avengers, Spider-man, Iron Man... most of the commonly known ones, of course, but I always loved them. But to put this as simply as I can -though that doesn't mean this will be short-, this film was filled with 1,000 of the most common clichés extracted from these great films and stories and crammed them into one mashed-up, jumpy, unreserved, ridiculous, abnormal, spiteful, detestable, idiotic, moronic, absurd, ludicrous, senseless, meaningless, pointless, terribly-written, unbelievably- unrealistic, super-super-super-hero-wannabe movie that very desperately AND obviously AND obnoxiously attempts to special-effect everything -and I mean everything- to simply gain some big bucks because, hey, it's Marvel, what could go wrong? It's sad to see how successful their attempts were; I fell for it... for me, it's all due to The Avengers because that was freaking amazing, even though it had a lot of commonplace stuff. And boy, do I regret wasting my two hours on this extremely disappointing collage. Basically, it's a film made of collages because everything just had to be colorful in outer space. No seriously. Of course everything is colorful there. It's not like the galaxy is filled with 96% dark matter that is called DARK for a reason. So yeah. Totally makes sense. And your skin also starts rotting in outer-space, too. Serious case of leprosy then? I liked Elektra more than this. I'd rather have watched that five times. Kind of feel like that says something. The only reasons I smiled or laughed was because the directors and script writers were decent at making corny jokes, puns, and lines funny enough that giggling is impossible prevent unless you are emotionless. They should have gone with comedy, rather than action-adventure, though, since I sincerely thought the rest of the moments were just junk. Call me a spoil-sport if you must, but I was literally whispering what would happen in the next minute to my friend beside me. Usually I'm not very good at predicting what happens in films -unless they are seriously full of clichés...which this film is-, but I said them anyway. I was right 8 times. Out of 9. I counted. Anyway... though the beautiful graphics did rival that of Avatar, the plot of "saving the people from the evil mastermind only this time it involves the whole galaxy instead of just one planet so it's not just Earth that's being targeted this time so ha we are different" never got THIS tiring. I was so close to sinking in my chair and dreaming up a nightmare because of how stupidly predictable this film was. Maybe that was intentional and Marvel fans just wanted to see some new, more unique heroes this time, and also to see the visuals, and maybe to see Chris Pratt and Zoe Saldana's pretty butts...but whatever. I had half that mind prepared for a cliché-turned- awesome movie when I walked in the theater. I came out with my whole mind filling up and overloading with shame and displeasure.So, plot: Would have been old and good but it wasn't. Protagonists: I would have cared for them more if the filmmakers didn't blow up almost everyone's favorite guy and kept alive some people's least-liked guy(s). So, yeah. Villains: ... oh my gosh, no, seriously? What even happened to the evil robot woman? Did the filmmakers just completely forget her? Music: Louder than Inception's horn. And I loved that even though it had no tune. Couldn't stand this though. But still, be ready for some rocking 80s and 90s music that I would have downloaded if they didn't play those songs during totally inappropriate moments. Comedy relief my butt. The only relief I got out of the soundtrack that isn't even their soundtrack -hopefully they didn't violate any copy rights... I mean, if it's these filmmakers, I wouldn't be surprised- is that I'm glad Groot enjoyed himself. Visuals: Stunning. That wasn't sarcastic at all. At all. What else? Oh yeah, unless you pay me a million dollars, I would never watch the sequel. So sorry I can't contribute ten dollars for Marvel next time. Tough luck.Don't let this review stop you though. Most of my friends liked it. And of course, most people who reviewed this movie liked it, so I guess I'm just a jerk. I'm betting you readers agree, and that's totally understandable since I am totally venting. But hey, three out of four of my friends never watched a Marvel movie so... call me bluffing, but I sincerely experienced one of the deepest disappointments I have ever dealt with in regards to a movie franchise in my entire life.... I'm still going to watch X-men though. Dang you, Marvel.
__label__1 If this is what passes for blockbuster entertainment these days then, after 50 years of cinema-going, I'm opting out for good. Are the filmmakers of the 21st Century so devoid of originality that everything has to be a cut and paste from the past? So, a brief run through of the tedium that passes for plot from that most dreaded of all auteur's the writer-director. A dude from the past (1988) gets taken into space sub-Hitchhiker Galaxy-style and gets to spout sub-Star Wars dialogue in a sub-Spaceballs kinda plot. I was looking at my watch after the first half hour. There was no irony or intelligence in the story, the hero takes off his space helmet in the vacuum of space and hands it over to the sour-faced flat-chested Star Trek reboot and they both survive! The director could have at least looked at Total Recall if the physics were too tough for him. If they can censor the best part of Zulu for alleged raaacism then I truly hope this garbage gets shredded for stupidity and cynicism. A sequel is, naturally, in the works. God bless you Stanley Kubrick.
__label__1 I have to say to make such an impressive trailer and such an uninteresting film, takes some doing.Here you have most of the elements that would make a very good film. You have great special effects, a sci-fi conundrum, beautiful visuals and good sound. Yet the most important part of the film is missing. There is no plot, character or soul to this film. It's like having a beautiful building on the outside with no paint or decoration on the inside.It's an empty shell of a film. There is no tension; you couldn't care less about any of the characters, why were they even motivated to do what they did. Helping a corporation get "one over" on another corporation is hardly saving the human race.When you operate in a dream environment, where you can't die or be injured really it means there is nothing to worry about, who cares what happens. All the explosions and actions sequences are just meaningless. By the way, why does Hollywood still keep filming action scene's an inch away from every characters nose? It's impossible to see what's going on, so many films are ruined by this. Watch and learn from the Matrix, take the camera backwards a couple of feet and we can actually work out what's going on.So 2 and half hours of looking at my watch waiting for the very predictable ending, is a million miles from being a good film. How anyone in their right mind can give this 10/10, it's boring and pointless. A film has stir the soul, has to grab you, you need to feel for the characters. Can anyone, honestly say, they cared about anyone on show here.By the way, here's an idea, why don't you bring the children (who haven't aged a minutes since you last saw them) to you, if you can't go to the US.I know the end scene was trying to be ambiguous, but the fact his father, who lives in Paris, is bizarrely there in the US to meet him (how did he know) and the children look identical to every dream sequence they appeared in, means there wasn't much doubt.In the end there is nothing at stake for anyone, so a pointless movie. I suspect Nolan will continue to get praise, but I can't really say I've got excited about any of his movies. They all leave me cold. They are not terrible, just there's nothing really there, no substance.
__label__1 Christopher Nolan has done some great work.His ideas and direction singlehandedly gave new life to the beloved superhero Batman.While the film Dark Knight will always be recognized to the new dimensions it added to the classic Batman series of movies and comics, Inception was nothing more than a dull and linear plot, surrounded by and an even duller and more linear plot.The centerpiece of this movie was supposed to be its convoluted storyline which was scattered across multiple levels, in essence puzzle that forces the viewer to think through the movie and decipher the ending.The concept of "levels" and or "interconnected plots" worked very well for such great films such as the Matrix, 2001 A Space Odyssey, Logan's Run, or Total Recall. Inception not only miserably fails at this but it also lacks in other places as well.-Characters: Great actors, whom have all done great work in many movies spanning decades. However the characters in this movie came off as neutered eunuchs who lacked sense, emotion, and any sort of cohesiveness. (Sir Michael Caine and Tom Berenger's performances were appalling and the "team" of dreamers lacked screen dynamics and chemistry.) -Action: For a dream world, the action in this movie is very unimaginative and is well within the typical Hollywood bounds. Car cash scenes where the heroes drive and shoot, building shootouts, and melodramatic bullet wounds (as always one character is wounded critically, the team must save him; however the character can still "fight".) -Plot: This movie could have easily been over within 1 hour of rolling. Not only was Inception's "puzzle ending" blatantly obvious 40 mins into the film, but the storyline it self lacked any substance or draw. The overly complicated "puzzle piece" effect which Nolan was trying to achieve, was nothing more than the main story line being surrounded by excessive fluff and whimsical bullplop.*I will credit the movie with one notable mention. Nolan managed to work a Matrix style fight scene (which have been overdone by Hollywood since the early 2000s) into the small confines of an elevator.In the ending, Inception is not the great rave that many make it out to be. While the movie takes place in a "dream world", where bounds are limitless, the movie itself is sterile, cliché, repetitive, and unimaginative. This is even further compounded by one dimensional characters, and a drawn out storyline that pretends to be an enigma.Perhaps Christopher Nolan's true intent was to make a sterile and lack luster movie aimed strictly at making today's self-absorbed and obtuse Facebook-hipster generation feel "smart".Inception can be compared to a class presentation where the student is unprepared. To hide this, the student uses convoluted and circular logic to stammer through the presentation and pass the time. It is obvious that the student knows nothing and has wasted several minutes talking about a subject that could have been explained in seconds. Nonetheless, since the student used "big words", talked excessively, and is deemed to be in the "mainstream" the class gives a standing ovation regardless...
__label__1 easily one of the worst films ever made, that some critics fell for it, just shows how bad today's professional critics have become. no doubt all the 14 to 18 year old Nolan fan boys are going to attack all of us, that have seen through this psycho babble non sense. ultimately the worst thing about the film is that it was utterly boring, from start to finish. at no time to you feel anything for any characters, the dialogue is of such a juvenile nature he must have got a 14 year old to write it. the guy has no idea of what dreams are what takes place during them, i will not go into any philosophical or psychological discussion here as the film does not warrant them, giving there is no sense in anything that is said or done. like dark knight this will have its time in the sun and in a few years the very same people who raved about it will wonder why. as for the ending with the top still spinning telling the audience that anyway it was all still a dream, totally makes the whole exercise futile. shame that a once good film maker has gone right up his proverbial
__label__1 This movie is so predictable that it takes all of 10 minutes to figure it out. At that stage you know you're going to waste another 2 and a half hours watching the nonsense where people slip in and out of dreams in an attempt to fabricate a story where there was no story.The plot starts in the first few minutes and ends in the last few minutes, everything in between... well... is better left unwatched.If you haven't figured it out immediately, then chances are you won't by the time it's over, in which case you're also wasting 2 and a half hours of your time.The only thing I got from watching this horrible overrated bloated cinematic experiment was a wish to kill myself. Maybe I'm dreaming, too?
__label__1 Saw this movie last night and we all walked out after an hour. By far the most boring movie I've ever seen. The more appropriate title would have been Japanese Government Has Meetings In Every Room Available. The American Godzilla back a few years ago is much better than this garbage was.There is literally 5 minutes of Godzilla scenes in total and the rest is Japanese meetings talking about Godzilla. The CGI in this is laughable as is any American dialog. You'd think that the Japanese could put out a decent Godzilla movie since they invented him but you'd be dead wrong. Avoid this movie like it's the plague and you'll thank me later.
__label__1 90 percent of this film is watching a bunch of Japanese in a single room discuss the bureaucracy and politics of a Godzilla attack. No, I'm being serious....I don't see how any one could truly enjoy that. It's very boring, and tedious. There is literally all together about 2-3 minutes of action in this movie, the rest is big long political conversations about how they should and shouldn't react to Godzilla destroying the city. No, I am being serious, again...Horrid film experience, I don't recommend at all.
__label__1 Let's kick off with the score I've given it. 5/10. That's for the reasonable job with the comedy, design, and things not related to story and pacing (with the exception of Gollum and the cave scene). I am tired of saying "The graphics are great, but..." I have rated it 1 here to reduce the average in order to reflect reality and not the fanboy love-in.I am not going to sugar-coat this film or give it a good review just because people tell me I should. I am sick to death of sheep. I don't care if this is Tolkien or Jackson or how much money it took to make the film. If it's bad, it's bad.Graphics count for nothing. The reason I watch a film is primarily for a great story and well written characters (I have to CARE about what is going on). I don't get dazzled by graphics anymore (if I ever did at all), and 3D action films do not make a film good. So right there is the problem with The Hobbit. The story is shallow and pretentious and cardboard. Let's run through why the film had me rolling my eyes throughout:The introduction is way too long.-The pacing is dire (and scenes that weren't in the book have been added).-One brainless action scene after another for no other reason than to eat screen time (because the book is 300 pages and they are trying to maximise profits by having 3 films at 3 hours each). Watching 2 rock monsters fight for minutes is not captivating or cool, it's boring.-Implausibility factor 10. I understand this is a fantasy. I understand that if everything was ultra realistic it would end up boring, but for heaven sake, that does not mean you can get away with what happens in this film. EVERY single scene shows something that would ordinarily kill someone. Fall down multiple ravines, battle 100's goblins with just a few men, rocks the size of cars flying at you... and no scratches, no deaths. It just doesn't work.-Lazy writing. You know you are witnessing a lazy-ass story when your heroes are saved at the last minute EVERY time in multiple scenes. Where does that leave us? It leaves us with all main characters intact and no dramatic tension. Every scene you see a massive rock crush a character you know they aren't dead. Every time you see them perilously close to the edge of a cliff, you know that even if they fall, they will be saved and/or survive. Further to this point, smaller problems exist such as Bilbo never handling a sword to suddenly taking on killer beasts like he has been to He-Man training school.-Cliché crap. The way Bilbo goes from being an outcast to being accepted is contrived and rushed and totally obvious. It just smacks of lazy cliché writing. The acting that goes with it is not good either. Kind of like "I once said... you weren't one of us... OH how wrong I was!" *Roll eyes time*. Then you have the White Orc that Thorin said he had slain, and you just KNEW it was coming back at the end for some sort of showdown, didn't you? Talk about obvious. I blame the film for this because the scenes involved in the exposition were way too see-through... might as well have had Thorin wink at the camera! That brings me onto the whole "Thorin dislikes Elves" angle, where you know the Elves are suddenly going to become important allies just so we can have a totally obvious and expected reversal. Wow, Thorin, you got Bilbo wrong and you got the Elves wrong too! DRAMA.-Lack of character development (Think Final Fantasy XII if you are a gamer). This was the stake through the heart of this film... Most of the dwarfs are completely redundant and I could not identify or even accept Bilbo. This was due partly to the lack of character development, partly to the script and partly to the actor. Same goes for Thorin except the scenes he is in feel more like a bad soap opera than they do a "blockbuster" film.It is just dull and lifeless and stupid. You shouldn't do things just because you can. The LOTR trilogy for the most part had decent pacing, and it didn't do things too fast, too soon, or for the sake of it. The original trilogy suffers from some the complaints above AT TIMES, but nothing like The Hobbit does... The Hobbit is in a league of its own. I went to watch an engaging movie and I got a cartoon.The use of CGI is also glaringly obvious and fake; like with the prequels of Star Wars, when the movie cuts between humans and CGI blobs, your brain is onto it. Stop relying on CGI for everything. It's getting annoying, not to mention OLD. At least Jackson makes real sets so it isn't a total wash out.There is some real potential in this film and it is squandered; whether that's because Tolkien wrote a flawed book, whether it is because he wrote a book that doesn't take well to a feature length movie or whether it is because Jackson messed it up, that's what we ended up with.The Hobbit should have been 2 films, and making it 3 has been the final nail in the coffin.So, I am sat here mightily annoyed that once again graphics and self indulgent, completely pointless action scenes have trumped good storytelling and pacing.Of course, the film is still entertaining at times and the 3D visuals are fun, but for me it is a massive disappointment.Visuals can not MAKE a film, but when used like in The Hobbit, they sure as hell can break it.
__label__1 THE QUALITY OF THE FILM Imagine "Spy Kids" with elements of Tolkien's writing. Technological demonstration, a large budget at the hands of a tasteless creative group. The CG animation of trolls was almost as ugly as in the Lord of the Rings. The only reason of making it 3D was making me cope with the uncomfortably of 3D. The dwarf parcour and scenes copied from the Lord of the Rings (compare the fight of Thorin and Azog with that of Isildur and Sauron), artificially added action-scenes and castrated non-action scenes spoke of lazy, commercial, mainstream work. Radagast's animal companions were Walt Disney's "Snow-white" bad.THE PLOT The poor novella (yep, Lord of the Rings is a novel trilogy, The Hobbit - only a small novella, yet both amount a trilogy of films) was so stretched out that the original and added material could be equal to each other. And whatever was taken from the book, was mutilated for reasons unknown: in the book, Azog is a goblin, not an orc, and is killed by Dain, not Thorin, and his son Bolg replaced him in Moria. The "stone giants" are only a dwarf legend about thunder. Radagast isn't a main character in any Tolkien work I know, because he doesn't give a damn about the wars of humans, elves and the rest. The Dol Guldur conflict and the ousting of the Necromancer actually has nothing to do with "The Hobbit". There is no toilet humor in the scene with trolls - in the book, Gandalf gives the trolls advice in troll voice, makes them change their mind so many times that dawn comes. In the movie - a troll blows his nose on Bilbo, then Bilbo starts a lecture on tapeworms. An awful lot of cliché ("NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!", "I'm sure we're through the worst" *Dumb Dumb Dumb* DRAGON'S WOKEN UP!!!). It was made so it would please a diaper-wearing kid, but don't make them sad. I hate the tragic scene->happy end formula, which was abused, raped, killed, buried, taken out of the grave, raped again in this film.THE HEROES The heroes were lacking any defining traits so intense in the book. Only a Hollywood template - smart-mouthed guys with tactless jokes. They were given one-liners/catchphrases to define them instead. It wasn't always easy to see the difference between certain dwarfs and the Great Goblin. In the book dwarfs are polite, but dry and greedy. In the book - kind-hearted heroic men, a bit stubborn, and loving to troll people now and then. Bilbo's not a conservative gentleman hobbit, who gets carried away by his curiosity for adventure, but a timid teenager. Gandalf isn't a powerful mage, but a well-informed homeless guy, Radagast is another one, and a schizophrenic in addition. Might as well fit in in Terry Gilliam's "The Fisher King" (awesome movie btw). Actually, there was no Bilbo character at all: there was a combined character of Frodo, Sam, Mery, Pin from LOTR.Verdict - if you want Tolkien, read the book. The movie isn't worth watching even once.
__label__1 First came the original trilogy, a popular success and critically acclaimed. Then, some years later, a second trilogy began, a prequel to the original, and the first installment of this second trilogy turned out to be awful. We saw this pattern play out once, with "Star Wars," and now, alas, it begins again, with "The Hobbit," a movie that is exactly one Jar Jar Binks away from being as bad as "The Phantom Menace." The problem may be built into the design. The previous "Lord of the Rings" films were each based on a single book. "The Hobbit" - more like a children's novel than the other three, a kind of "Tom Sawyer" to their "Huckleberry Finn" - is just one book, smaller than any of the other J.R.R. Tolkien books, and yet it is being blown out into three enormous films. This first installment runs 169 minutes.This puts a lot of pressure on a simple story, especially when you consider that director Peter Jackson and his screenwriters really can't take liberties with the tale, not without incurring the wrath of millions. They must work with what they have, and what they have is quite enough for one pleasing and inventive two-hour movie - or a nine-hour disaster stretched over three years.This pressure, this obligation to stretch everything to the limits of endurance and beyond, is felt from the film's early minutes. Howard Shore's beautiful theme music, from the previous trilogy, filters in. We see the idyllic Middle-earth countryside and are introduced to Martin Freeman as Bilbo Baggins - Freeman was born to be a hobbit; he is ideal casting - and we settle in for a magical experience. And then, slowly, a fatal distance opens up between what we're hoping and what we're actually seeing.Bilbo is a happy hobbit, a homebody who enjoys his creature comforts and doesn't have a violent impulse about him. Yet he is recruited by Gandalf the Grey Wizard (Ian McKellen) to join an expedition by dwarfs to retake their homeland from a dragon. See how quickly it takes to say that? Bilbo is recruited. Period. Yet the movie takes this tiny bit of crucial plot movement and dilutes its effectiveness: The dwarfs show up for an impromptu party at Bilbo's house. Bilbo frets about what the dwarfs will do to his house. Then the dwarfs clean up. Then Bilbo says he won't join their fight. But then he does. The film milks every detail of the text, every hint of vacillation in the main character, to turn water flowing downstream into molasses walking uphill.It must be said that if you plan to enjoy "The Hobbit," it really helps to love dwarfs. Others may prefer hobbits - they're adorably idiosyncratic, small, chubby, eat all day, have big ears, and they're incredibly sincere. Still others may prefer the Olympian elves - beautiful, pristine, sure and eternal. But there is only one hobbit in the entire movie, and only one brief sequence involving elves. Otherwise you're stuck with the dwarfs, who are like Vikings - boorish, slovenly, hearty and heavy-drinking - and not exactly lovable.The three "Lord of the Rings" were heavy on battle scenes, but "The Hobbit" is almost nothing but battles. Without a stopwatch, it would be hard to know for sure, but probably 50 percent of screen time is taken up with fighting - perhaps up to 80 percent if you count planning for and recovering from battles. Some of these battles have pockets of interest: A conflict with goblins plays out like a trapeze act, in three dimensions, with the combatants falling through space, landing and regrouping. But most of "The Hobbit" is like looking over Peter Jackson's shoulder to watch a computer screen.Occasionally, when the smoke clears, we get a glimpse of what "The Hobbit" might have been, had Freeman's quirkiness and humanity been given a chance to set the tone. The movie really springs to life only when Freeman dominates, as when Bilbo falls into a cave and discovers Gollum, looking like James Carville but acting like Peter Lorre. It's an encounter worthy of the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy - so is the all-too-brief scene between Gandalf and Galadriel (Cate Blanchett).If you loved the earlier films, these are moments you will hold on to, but they're very few, and they're not enough.
__label__1 What a disappointment ! While I watched all LOTR movies with great enjoyment, this one is just a movie created to fill someone's pockets.First of all, there is no suspense, no pace to the movie, nothing to give you that nice feeling of holding your breath during the whole movie eagerly awaiting what will come next. No, this was just a waste of 3 hours of my life.Then the movie itself doesn't make sense, some examples: - the whole group except Gandalf is deep down a Gobelin mine, fighting the king and obviously loosing the battle. Then tadaaaa Gandalf appears, teleported or something, to save them all. And of course after that they have to run for hours to find the exit, instead of taking the path Gandalf took to enter ( or teleport back ). - again in the Gobelin mine, right before the exit, they defy all gravity rules, the king falls down first, then the bridge they stand on (which they use as a skateboard of course), and when they reach the bottom they get crushed 5 minutes later by the king who finally decided to finish his descent... - why did Gandalf call the giant eagles at the end of the trip and not on the beginning? Due to a lack of mots in the beginning area?And I skip all the parts not in the book, just created to extend the length of the movie, allowing for 3 episodes.Finally, I must admit the special effects are stunning, but all fights (and there are many of them) have a big problem; either you see the movie at 48fps and you have a big chance of getting sick (just google it) either your eyes will hurt at the end of the movie because of the fast and blurry scenes.
__label__1 The Hobbit is absolutely terrible. Maybe the most uninspired musical I've ever seen. Its like they reshot the lord of the rings with a veneer of hobbit overlaid on top. how many rube goldberg cgi events can you put in one film? Swinging bridge jump, swinging giant foot jump, more swinging bridge jumps, collapsing rock jump, etc.rabbit powered sleighs, goblin goiters with shakespearian English accents, hunky dwarf king, and somehow the 3d model of the giant white god guy from prometheus got a role as an orc.the whole time i kept thinking about the marketing meeting that resulted in it becoming 3 films, 'why make $1 billion off 1 film when we can make $3 billion off 3 films.' the only emotion i had during the entire film was hatred...for Peter Jackson the soulless nazgul.
__label__1 I hated pretty much everything about this movie, but here are the main points:Expanding on Tolkien's mythology: Presumably, the reason you should "never trust an Elf!" (Gimli's line in TFotR) is because Elves turned their back on the Dwarfs when they were being attacked by Smaug? What were they expected to do against a dragon and why were they just standing there anyway? This is basically adding a whole new level of mythology. A no-no, unless it's an improvement and that's not the case here.The dwarfs: They looked ridiculous to me and their behavior was annoying. But no dwarf was more off-putting than Thorin with his ludicrous fur-trimmed leather duster, Rob Zombie do and constant glowering. Ugh.The introductory scene takes too long but, given all this time, you'd think Jackson would try and be more faithful to the book. But, no, he still manages to mangle it. Anyway, the next day, after Bilbo has decided not to go the day before (he wasn't really given the choice in the book), he justgoes. And it's very interesting that he's able to, on foot, overtake Gandalf and the dwarfs all riding along briskly on horseback. And when he does catch up, he's offered a pony, which he at first declines. Why? Bilbo had nothing against riding a pony.Azog: The footnote springs to cinematic life and has a vendetta against Thorin. But the character in the LotR Appendix, for all of his two-pages of appearance and death at the hands of Dáin, is still more bad-ass than the video game reject in AUJ. Anyway, if Jackson wanted to go this route, it would have made more sense to just go with Azog's son Bolg, who will appear anyway.Trolls: or, how to take an amusing sequence from the book and drain it of any humor whatsoever. Actually, that opinion applies to the whole movie. But, instead of Gandalf employing ventriloquism on the trolls and getting them to fight each other, Bilbo tells them the dwarfs have parasites and Gandalf gets to break a rock in two. Yawn.Radagast: An utterly ridiculous and repellent visualization of another footnote character, with his ridiculous dying hedgehog, rabbit-drawn sleigh and poo-smeared face. But that's just my opinion. But why is he in the movie at all? To tell Gandalf about the Necromancer, I guess. But if Gandalf doesn't already know this (as he does in the book) where did he get the map and key from Thráin (Thorin's father) who (in the book) was a prisoner in Dol Guldur? Presumably, he wasn't in Dol Guldur in the movie. So where is he? It's basically glossed over. In any case, the very idea that Greenwood is turning into Mirkwood right before Radagast's eyes at the start of the movie just strikes me as a desperate and weak attempt to create a sense of urgency and menace. The spiders are even seen entering the forest as if to take up their positions. Also in any case, Gandalf's very reason for being in Middle Earth is to help combat the Necromancer (aka Sauron). For him not to know about his presence in Mirkwood is, sorry, just witless.Apparent invulnerability: None of the protagonists get hurt in this movie. Stone giants fall on them, they get up. They fall a hundred feet, they just walk it off. Goblins (who, for some reason, are portrayed as distinct from orcs) attack in droves, they just cut them down like wheat. Thorin does later fall unconscious (from a blow that should have crushed his skull), but he later turns out none the worse for wear. Even if these characters weren't profoundly irritating, why should I care about them if they're not in any danger? And enough with the fake deaths. Did anyone watching this really fear the titular character might fall to his death halfway through his own movie?Riddles in the "Dark": Finally, some resemblance to the book, except even here there are details changed for no good reason. And couldn't they have toned down the lighting just a bit more to give some impression of darkness? As for Gollum himself, it's hard to find fault with Andy Serkis, except that Gollum is now basically a celebrity and practically played like one in the film. He no longer surprises, frightens or disturbs in the least. The cosy lighting doesn't help at all.Bilbo the Badass: Bilbo kills a Warg (which, though strong enough to uproot a tree, will drop with a single arrow or sword thrust/hack). Later he savagely kills an orc. Where'd this come from? Perhaps to make up for Frodo being a wuss in those other movies? Whatever the case, it's so far out of left field, it's just seems tacked on.Eagles: Gandalf just happens to spot a moth nearby in the tree he's climbed up to avoid the orcs and wargs. How convenient. And the book's explanation for the eagles doesn't work because? There really is no good reason. Jackson wants to make full use of the eagles, but only as devices; he's averse to giving them any back story or personality or anything. You'd think with his apparent love of exposition and the characters making speeches all the time, something could have been said about them, but no, the eagles just drop them off and depart. They're nothing more than deus ex machina. Granted, there are challenges to following the book more closely here but I still think Jackson takes the cheap way out.Final scene: Bilbo blithely states "I do believe the worst is behind us." Really? Why would he believe this while looking at a mountain that is 1) still leagues distant; and 2) he knows contains a fire-breathing dragon? I will be surprised if even morbid curiosity compels me to watch any more of these.
__label__1 I don't understand the appeal of this film. It has no plot (which is not necessarily a bad thing. Another Fincher/Pitt collaboration from 1999 comes to mind), the protagonist has no goal, and the film basically has no conflict.Massive Spoilers Below.Button is a FREAK. You would think his life would be a living hell full of torment and meaty conflict...but no. Button's life is wonderful. He rarely encounters hardship.He gets abandoned by his father, who shows up later and gives Benjamin everything he owns. He is taken in by a loving woman who cares for him every step of the way, keeping him far from anyone who would consider him to be a freak. He lives the good life growing up...or would it be down? He gets a job handed to him while sitting on a bench (a job that he loves so much that he would have done it for free, but he's getting paid!). He travels the world feeling no ill effects and not being taunted or ridiculed one single time for his disorder.Most difficult situation he encounters is being left without a life jacket when the tugboat encounters a German WWII sub, which the tugboat ends up defeating with such ease and rapidity, Benjamin doesn't even have time to do anything but crouch down for a minute and hide. The lack of a life jacket doesn't even come into play at all. A set-up with no pay-off. What was the point of that? The episodic nature of the story makes it difficult to remember whether Tilda Swinton's character showed up before or after Benjamin went to war, but it doesn't even matter. Swinton has an affair with Button, but Swinton's husband is a spy! Oh shlt? Nope. That is another set-up without a pay-off. More conflict avoided. It's an affair without any repercussions.The closest the film comes to a plot is the love story between Daisy and Benjamin, which is also the closest the film comes to displaying any sort of real conflict. Benjamin goes to New York to surprise Daisy only to find out she is with someone else. She rejects him. Benjamin goes to Paris. Daisy rejects him again. However, the rejections are only temporary, and Daisy forgives him entirely. More conflict avoided.From there on, they live a wonderful life. There is even a montage showing how wonderful their life together is. Neither one has to deal with any sort of conflict for a while. They just have sex and fun all day long. They eventually end up having a child together, and Benjamin decides to walk out on them to avoid the possibility of conflict arising from the fact that he will eventually grow young and Daisy will have to care for both of them.So despite his radical disorder (that nobody even really comments on, let alone ridicules him over), Benjamin goes through what some would consider a perfect life. He ends up with everything he wants and doesn't even have to work to get it.Hell, I wish I was born backwards so my life would be free and easy.How could a story with a concept so ripe with conflict completely avoid it?
__label__1 I wasn't particularly enthralled with the idea of this film before seeing it but there was nothing else good on, so I gave it a try. An interesting idea for a film, that he grows physically younger but mentally develops in the normal way. However, this leads to many inconsistencies in the storyline. It doesn't make sense that Benjamin, when he becomes a father, decides to leave and travel the world. He looks of the age to do something like this but he's meant to be more mature... And when he's an old man in a young boy's body, he has a tantrum like a young boy would, but that doesn't fit the idea of the story, either... When trying to find the point to this whole story, all it comes down to is that we should look after those close to us and take more care of them. Well, that's an original one! To me, it became extremely boring as there is never any deep meaning to it and it just keeps dragging on for far too long when you can see that it's quite a stupid idea to put into a film. The anecdotes in the story, the acting and the direction are all good but in the end, what's the point?
__label__1 Groucho Marx said there's no worse thief than a bad movie. (steals your money and your time) and that's exactly what this film is.Do not, I repeat, do not tolerate the comparisons to Forrest Gump - a film filled with history, humor!, star-studded cast, a solid script, jam packed with history, one clever gimmick after the other and brilliant effects.Spoiler - Benjamin Button had one effect, that was make-up: Take one of the world's most attractive men and make him look unattractive for 75% of the film, while he moans and groans about the deal he's been dealt in life. don't get me wrong, they did this well, but he's never sympathetic. Y'just don't care about him at all... to be honest, the whole film struck me as a giant, drawn-out metaphor for a midlife crisis: a man pines after a girl who's not ready for him for years and years, then when she finally takes him into her bed, they spend a glorious year between the sheets, and as soon as responsibility shows up in the form of a child, he runs away from commitment, blaming his condition. And what's the big deal with his condition??? So his body is getting younger.. not his mind. That would actually make him a great father... he'd be around for the same number of years as many fathers are for their children.. 30/40 years, and during that time he'd only have gotten stronger and younger, while his mind was still maturing. What a gift! Great, cherish it! Live it! Accept your lot in life, challenges and all, and be a remarkable human being. That's the challenge laid upon us all. But no - Instead of facing his problem and taking on life and love and cherishing every moment, he lets down the woman he loves terribly and runs out on her, for what? to have sex with a few women? Preposterous.And then of course, when he comes back, she forgives him for being a coward and a stinker. Well why? Why be so forgiving. What's so tough about his life, oh poor guy, he gets to get younger everyday, he gets to get stronger and better looking as he sleeps.. where was the appreciation of this miracle? Where were the papers who would have been making a big deal over him? Where was the major history that he lived through which we never saw? Where were his amazing slew of life experiences, we watched 90 years of a man's life and all he did was run and hide from who he was. Where was a p-l-o-t? - the guy had no appreciation for the people who loved him, never knew his mother was sick? Nope, just came home one day to find she'd died. Did he not stay in touch with anyone? He did have a sister. I guess she didn't want to call to let him know their mother was ill? Clearly no one cared enough about him to tell him. Classic. Well if they don't, I don't either. And why did Cate's character keep his postcards from their daughter once the journal was found? Made no sense. Cate moved into the house and lived with him for 5 years as he went through Alzheimer's as an infant - where was Julia's character during this time? Also not speaking to anyone? Was she not curious why her mother chose to spend 5 years of her life this way? Why did she never tell her about her father? Why did I watch this piece of drivel and waste my time??? Save yourself the agony.I'm sorry F. Scott Fitzgerald. I'm sure you wrote a lovely short story. But that's all it was, a short story, and should have remained so. Before someone drags out your piece to a 3 hour sedative they ought to maybe actually write a s-t-o-r-y to justify the running time.**Watch the trailer**. That's all you need. And really, do watch it. It's interesting, it's pretty to look at, and really that's the entire story right there, a minute-and-a-half, you can see all of the make-up and special effects, you can pretend you've seen the film, cause nothing more happens - save yourself 3 hours and go spend time with your family instead, appreciate the gift of life instead of squandering it on bad films, or watch a different movie, (ooh, Juno, that was a good flick with an actual script - about dealing with life, hardships and all without boring people to tears), or go bang your head against a wall, something remotely entertaining. Brad, Cate, Julia, you're wonderful, all of you, the whole cast, you're lovely, you got pummeled by a lousy non-script and mind-blowingly uninspired direction. I'm sorry for you all.
__label__1 Honestly, I cannot start out saying anything other than this movie was complete rubbish from the ground up. At first sight, it seems to hold such promise: an interesting hook, renowned actors, as well as being based on a short (HA! more on that later...) story of F. Scott Fitzgerald's. I even paid to see it non-matinée the week it was released- a rarity for me. Yet all the overblown actors and excessive ad campaigns and self-congratulating awards shows in the world could not disguise what this film truly was.First off, the acting. I love Cate Blanchette, truly I do, but if she could do no better with her hackneyed portrayal of a Deep Southern accent, she did not deserve her role. In fact, both of the leads sounded so bad it would have been laughable had it not been so entirely insulting. I have lived all over the Southeastern US and have yet to encounter people who sounded so overdone and idiotic. Also, there was no way Cate could possibly hope to pass for early twenties. They should have taken their cue from Pitt's people and filmed her back-lit in complete shadows for the younger scenes. As for Brad Pitt, I have always been leery of him- I only ever hear of the man as an Adonis rather than an actor. Next time I will stick to my instincts- his pretty face did little to cover for his wooden lack of talent. It seems that all his contracts ever require of him is that he bang the hot chick. At least he got one part right.Which brings me to my next point- the absolutely sickening way Hollywood treats sex. It's so commonplace, so vulgar. Apparently, you are not a man, nay, not even a whole human being until you've shagged someone, even if its a hooker. Never mind that the character was supposed to only be mentally 13 (felony, anyone?). Or that no regard was given to the repercussions of such numerous encounters with people he had little other relation with. It's as if they wanted to see how long they could stretch out a film on pure bs. In fact, did this character exist for any other reason that to brag about his sexual irresponsibility in an outrageous southern drawl? Beats me.Even more curious than the case of the missing plot, was the mystery of the missing logic. Where was the racial tension of black adults raising a white child in New Orleans? Where was the brain of the policeman when Crazed Daddy Button came back with no ugly baby? Where was the sorcerer that was responsible for said ugly baby and the mysterious clock of doom we kept cutting to? Where were the obviously blind doctors and reporters that just happened to never realize the man was AGEING BACKWARDS? Not even a lone tormentor of this freak of nature? I've never known a person with life this good- everyone accepts him, wants to shag him, forgives him at a whim, and takes care of him no matter the personal cost. And all the while he is looking more and more like Brad Pitt. Am I seriously supposed to feel sorry for him? Everyone dies, everyone eventually reverts to a state where they can't care for themselves. I'm pretty sure that impermanence is when people keep telling me makes life SPECIAL. So shut up grow some, please.And then, to put the cherry on the sundae, our brave hero decides that it's just not fair for his lady friend he's knocked up to have to eventually raise two kids, so what does he do? He abandons her to raise one totally alone and travel the world seeking out more hookers to ease his pain. Oh tut, tut, life's just not fair, is it? Of course, he does actually come back when he can't change his diapers himself anymore, therefore negating any possible shred of nobility he supposedly professed. And all the while this is treated as the greatest sacrifice known to humankind. More like the greatest selfishness. I could go on like this for years, but I think my point has been sufficiently made.The friend on my right side during the film wept at the end, calling it the deepest film he'd ever seen. The depth must have overwhelmed the one to my left, because after dragging on for 3 hours for no discernible reason, all she could think of was when would it end so she could go to the toilet. I am inclined to agree with the latter: there are better things I could do with my time than watch this movie, among them, go to the toilet.
__label__1 I can't believe how positive the reviews for this movie are. I was extremely disappointed in this movie.1. The old woman's voice was extremely annoying and over-acted. Perhaps even unrealistic as I have never heard an old person talk like that.2. The hummingbird showing up at sea was stupid. Then it showed up again in the hurricane at the very end of the movie which was completely ridiculous.3. When Benjamin was born he was born with the mind of a child, the body of an 80-year old but he was baby-sized. The fact that he had the body of a child but was baby-sized was a bit bit inconsistent but fine, I'll accept it. When he aged, his body size grew, but everything other than his body size became younger, and his brain grew older. Then, by the end of the movie, he had the mind of an 80-year old, and the body of a baby, but he was baby-sized again. He should have started as a normal sized 80-year old or he should have died as a large baby. I prefer the former. He could have been born as a 100 lb old man, and that could have explained why the mother died, because she had given birth to a 100 lb old man (she could have been a 300 lb pregnant woman, not any harder to believe than Benjamin's condition itself). Yeah it sounds crazy, but to me it makes more sense and is more consistent.4. When old-body, young-mind Benjamin was screwing the whore they made reference to his stamina and he said something like "let's go again" to the whore. If he had an old body he would not have been such a performer in bed. Are people so stupid to believe that performance in bed is only mental?5. Incredibly boring. Moves at a very slow pace for the entire movie. There is almost no conflict, just boring scene after boring scene.6. Mr. Button grabbed the baby from the room in front of some nurses and a doctor and then ran away from a cop. He got away from the cop and put the baby on someone's front stairs. Did none of the people who saw him take the baby report him? At least to the media? If this movie made any effort to be realistic at all, Mr. Button would have feigned joy at the baby's birth and then dumped the baby after everyone had left. Or, they would have reported a missing baby with wrinkly skin.7. Last minute of the movie was such a groaner. "Some play music, some are mothers, some dance..." give me a break.8. Too long for what it is.
__label__1 This summary subject came from a review in the LA Weekly. It was so funny I thought you might appreciate it. Honestly this film was ridiculous. The ending was so un-intendingly funny that I couldn't stop laughing. I thought she was going to actually inhale the baby Benjamin into her womb to complete the cycle. There were many things about this film that was just plain stupid, but having to have Brad pit go back to the actual infant form was just insane. I keep trying to figure out why when a white baby was raised by a black mother in the 20's, 30's and on wasn't ever an issue with anyone in a very racist town like New Orleans in the south. It was never an issue in the film. If you like seeing plastic faces or shamelessly trying to get you get a tear in your eye with nonsense character development then this might be the film for you... Or not....
__label__1 Am i the only one who thought this movie was bad and i mean REALLY BAD? Im not the best writer but i just cant resist writing something about this movie.X-Men Origins Wolverine was one of the most disappointing movies I've ever seen, and i honestly thought that this one was worse! and in my book thats saying a lot!I mean THIS WAS IT!!! This was the big prequel story that started the rivalry between Professor X and Magneto and THIS was the only history they had of being friends!?!? Thats it????? Was THIS the origin story that jump started the war between humans and mutants? Are you serious??Mystique and Professor X are step brother and sister now!?................REALLY????? He tells her she will never have to feel hunger again and gives her a roof over her head and all that when they are still kids, plus they seem to get a long pretty damn good growing up, not arguing or fighting or anything like that (well maybe a little but definitely nothing serious) and then she betrays him that easily!!!! right after he JUST got shot in the spine!!!!!!!!!..............REALLY!!! You don't need to be a bad guy just to be yourself!! Was that the only motivation for Mystique to betray her brother and join Magneto to later become the evil blue bitch that we all know? And if i remember this correctly, wasn't Professor X walking in the beginning of (X men 3 The last Stand) when he and Magneto were visiting Jean Grey when she was still a kid? I believe he was, and he was a lot older then and already completely bald. Come to think of it! Professor X and Magneto were still friends at that age! which makes not knowing their history about their friendship even more enteresting because you can assume that they were friends for a loooong time! And you can only guess whatever could have happened to make them arch enemies of each other.....Do you mean to tell me that Professor X can use Cerebro to track down any mutant on the planet and those were the ones they picked to recruit!!! A stupid butterfly girl, an annoying useless screaming kid, a worthless black guy who adapts to the situation for survival and then dies that easily! Havok or whatever with his stupid laser chest, ARE YOU KIDDING ME!? Then to top it off we have Butterfly girl chasing Screaming kid spitting on him and that was supposed to be exciting!? that is what they call action!?!? Is that one of the dumb action scenes that I read about that other people are so damn excited over!? That actually entertained you people..............?The special effects in this movie looked like they came straight out of a movie that was made in the 90's. I witnessed some of the worst cgi ever viewing this movie! Every scene that contained cgi actually looked like cgi! Very ugly cgi! For example when Magneto stops the missiles shot at the beach and their just hovering in the air or the entire scene of butterfly girl chasing screaming guy, mystique her transformations looked better in the original X men trilogy, even the big radar a couple of miles away that Magneto uses his powers on to make it move looks fake. THIS IS 2011!!! I believe it has to be possible to make cgi effect that the audience obviously KNOWS about it BEING CGI but actually CANT TELL its cgi, am i right?The more i think about this movie the more flaws come to mind and if i have to write all of them down its gonna take all night!There has to be someone out there who agrees with me and who will put the flaws he noticed in a review or something.Sorry for any misspells, I'm Dutch and my English is far from a hundred percent.
__label__1 Rarely have I seen a film professing to be good that ended up being as bad as XMFC. The back story altogether was silly and not just written to be taking place in the 60s, but seemed to be written as if the writers were living in the 60s. There was soooo much cheesy and corny crap. The yacht that turns into a submarine, the overly trusting CIA that takes super-powered people and lets them run wild recruiting kids to be super-secret agents for the government (what is this, Spy Kids?), the bad guy with the secret passageways behind the bookshelf and the table that spins around when you touch the secret panel...I mean all of that late 60s/early 70s James Bond flotsam that no one ever really did or had, but was all part of the "isn't this cool, daddio" culture of the time and so popped up in every action movie. I was waiting for there to be a mad scientist with a death-ray on the moon. So much for Vaughn's determination to bring these characters into a realistic setting. Then, the most interesting characters were the ones most under-utilized. Havok, Banshee, Darwin, Azazel and Riptide were completely glossed over in favor of the already over-exposed characters. People complain about the X-films over using Wolverine and that they are tired of it? Well, absent him, who are the two characters most heavily utilized in the X-films? Magneto (the ever-villain, whose constant inclusion negates the use of far more interesting villains) and Xavier. The other two character focal points, Mystique and Beast, have also been done. So anyone hoping for some good character exposition on the new blood...sorry, you are S.O.L. Nothing here but the same old, same old. But then, on the topic of the characters who actually did get exposition... --Magneto. You get his initial entrance into the concentration camp, and then he is 30. 12 to 30...just like that. What happened in between? What happened between when he got liberated and the first scene with him in the hotel room spinning the coin round his fingers? It was bad story telling. They wanted him to be completely unencumbered with a job, friends, a home...anything that would ground his character in reality. They wanted him to be a clean slate of a character with one thing only: revenge on Shaw. Talk about a one-dimensional character. Plus, his turn-coat to being a bad guy was practically instantaneous. Yeah, he and Xavier had that very brief convo about mutants/humans sitting across the chess board, but that was really it. Then, a few meglo-maniacal words from Shaw in the reactor room and Magneto is ready to turn coat on the only people in his entire life that he has ever been able to call friend. Almost as silly as Darth Vader's turn in Episode III. --Mystique...same exact problem. Her brother, best friend, only person in the world she really cares about. Not only does she betray his dream, not only does she go against every other one of her friends, but she up and leaves Xavier shot and possibly dying. I'd be one thing if she were a stalwart "mutant and proud" booster from the start, but she has only ever wanted to be normal and has known love, friendship and acceptance and she immediately turns away from her entire life and the beliefs she has had her whole life after a few kind words from a guy she threw herself at (who ultimately rejected her advances, btw). Her turn was sillier than Magneto's. At least he had the bad childhood to fall back on. --Shaw. His motivation was wholly unbelievable. He was a completely one-dimensional villain. Why exactly did he want to do what he was planning? Here he is, a wealthy and powerful man who has never known anti-mutant prejudice due to his ability to pass for a human, as well as the fact that there was no anti-mutant prejudice at this time since mutants were an, as yet, undiscovered species. And yet, he is looking to destroy all of humanity. Oh yeah, and exactly how were the mutants to survive the nuclear holocaust? I don't recall anyone claiming all mutants were immune to radiation poisoning. So he was just a cartoonish Bond villain with no reasoning behind his motivation. So characters were bad, style and execution of the plot was bad, action and FX were Michael Bay-esque in that it was random explosions and jump cuts that had too many things happening too fast to make an impact. Clichéd training montages. Terrible effects on Beast. Silly one-dimensional human characters. Some of the acting was passable, but some was flat out bad (January Jones, the Kravitz girl) and the ones that were good were really just OK. No stand out performances. And even if Fassbender and Macavoy could be seen as great, they weren't so good that the entire movie can hang on their performances. Frankly, I think this film is a beneficiary of its own hype. Maybe a lot of critics who grew up in the 60s/70s were swept up in the nostalgia for their lost childhood and looked fondly on this film because of it. High critical praise and constant...never...ending...PROMOTION for weeks had people hypnotized into thinking this movie's release was going to be the event of all events. I think it got to a point where the people who were moderately excited about its release started hyping themselves up more and more at every positive review and every new trailer. Every new viral character spotlight and every crossover (come on...a Statefarm Insurance crossover?!?). Eventually, they just told themselves that this was the movie of the year and, for those people, it became a self-fulfilling prophecy. I'd recommend passing on this one. Hopefully, they will reboot the whole series and make an X-Men movie that does the characters justice.
__label__1 8.2 out of 10?...seriously? the first x men was OK...the second was bad...the third was a bag full of puke...wolverine origins was a rape....but this one is worst than any of the other x men movies.What's wrong with this pile of garbage? 1- Professor X and Mystique are related? WTF 2-Alex Summers and not Scott? Why? Scott Summers is one of the original X Men, not Alex 3-Where is Angel? I mean Warren Kenneth Worthington III not that little butterfly girl.4- Where is Iceman? 5- Where is Marvel Girl? What a silly plot. Hollywood can't make good movies anymore. They take a good source and just violated the fans with some stupid adaptation.What's with the romantic relation between Beast and Mystique? Where that came from? Mystique mated with Azazel and that's where Nightcrawler comes from.Stupid movie. I have no idea why the rating is so high.The Wolverine cameo was kind of cool though.
__label__1 This movie should had been named: "MAGNETO" or better; "Magneto's love story with hate".ALL the previous Xmen films bespoke of friendship, camaraderie and humanity and the best positive traits associated with these basic qualities and these films contained the positive traits which define the Xmen... and what makes them attractive & engaging... for me at-least. "First Class" seriously lacks these good qualities. And it replaces all that was good, moral or engaging with the Xmen franchise with only one thing; Magneto's hate. Almost all characters in the movie, including the amazing, great character of Prof. Charles Xavier is, at the hands of the "hooh-haah" director Matthew Vaughn, reduced to "second class" citizens (yes, definitely, pun-intended) in order to allow the glorification of Magneto's HATE. The "chutzpah" is in that the director does it, in plain sight, all the while asking us-- to applaud Magneto and to create in us, fans and viewers, a sense of wonder and awe about how "cool" Magneto's awful and cruel shenanigans throughout the movie, are. Why is Magneto shown off in this movie as "the underdog hero"? And why is this done, while trampling on other and better characters of the Xmen franchise? Why is Prof. Xavier reduced, in the hands of Vaughn, to a mere sidekick and 2'nd grade character, whose only existence, according to Vaughn's movie, is to showcase and highlight how 'cool' and defiant Magneto's bottom-line cruelty, is-- in almost every single scene in which Prof.X and Magneto appear together?? I'm sure there are more knowledgeable and "professional" Xmen fans than me, out there, in the world. However, some things are very clear. No matter how good you're familiar with the Xmen or how many fan-stripes you have on your badges. Magneto is NOT the 'good'-cool-wow protagonist. He simply is NOT that. Prof. Xavier is NOT Magneto's sidekick-glorifier, whose sole purpose is to show how "cool" we should perceive (by Vaughn) Magneto as. Prof. X is so much... so much more than that.And what's with Mystique? Why's she's Prof. X's girlfriend at first, and then she goes... how weird and ugly is that? What's that supposed to mean... I mean except that she's a... -- well, of a truly questionable character, you know?Yes, I know what Vaughn is trying to get us convinced in; Magneto had "that" childhood, in the Shoah... Really? We knew that from the first shot in Singer's "Xmen". Does that condone the terrible things Lensher/Magneto does 'because' of it? Ask Vaughn; he knows. Vaughn says a big "yes". Oh... I guess that having that Shoah childhood allows Lensher to do EVERYTHING now, in the name of revenge. In Singer's "Xmen" (2000), Singer trusts our judgment, to decide; whether we choose to view Magneto as a 'good guy'/'bad guy'. Vaughn doesn't "trouble" us with that issue; Vaughn is after "cool"... that's what he cares about. For Vaughn, the issue Good versus evil turns to a 'second class citizen' (pun intended, again) when 'the COOL factor' enters the game. Vaughn is so eager to present Magneto as "cool" and as poised as James Bond or Bruce Wayne, that he simply throws the fact that this character is utterly cruel & immoral, right out the window. Why not? The applaud sign goes up after showing yet another of Magneto's beastiality.I read a reviewer saying that this new movie doesn't need Wolverine. Why? Because, according to this big-shot reviewer, Magneto 'more than makes up' for Wolverine's absence... Really?? At the ending of 2000's "Xmen", Wolverine sacrifices his life, knowingly and intentionally, in order to save Rogue's life. That's what makes Wolverine--- Wolverine. That's what makes him a hero, in my book. Yes, it's cool; those adamantium claws, that no-hold bars attitude...But these do not a HERO make. What Wolverine does for Rogue to live, at the end of 2000's Xmen, at the expense of his own life... that's what a hero make. Contrastingly, consider what Lensher/Magneto does 'for' his mutant comrades/friends in the end of "Xmen:FC"... -- Lensher disposes of his enemies (or more correctly; rivals) in a way that would Nazi sympathizers proud. --- He is responsible, even if in-directly, for the permanent maiming and crippling of the only man (Prof. X) who ever chose to try to persuade him to see beyond his selfish hate. --- He steals that's man sister/girlfriend (who was selfish throughout anyway... no big loss, but still), and eventually leaves that person abandoned, badly hurt and crippled permanently while he still goes out to pursue his still unsatisfied selfish goals for domination over those who 'don't see his way'. With friends like Lensher, who even needs enemies? Ask Prof. X. He learnt that the hard way. Vaughn is so taken by admiration to Magneto, trying to pitch him off and out as no-less than the "new James Bond"... that he (Vaughn) even gives Magneto a "Bond. James Bond" kind of line in the ending of the film... which is not only plain ugly... but also very condescending.Problem is: X-MEN was never, at it's very core and it's most fundamental message-- a one-man show (like Bond or 'solo' superheroes)!!! X-men was, forever, a 'team-effort' showcasing & celebrating the need to band together and be AS A TEAM one for the other. X-men in many of it's incarnations, celebrated unity and celebrated TRUE friendship & camaraderie. That is... until "hooh-haah" director Matthew Vaughn came along with "First Class" and stripped the Xmen of their most valuable and True badge of Honor. And Vaughn replaced that Xmen badge of Honor and all it stood for- - for one thing alone: Magneto's praise song, sung by Magneto (and Vaughn), applauding and celebrating hatred. By going against everything the Xmen ever stood for... this movie becomes the worst X-men movie to-date and a major disappointment.
__label__1 Don't know where to begin, this was such a bad, cheesy, lame film! - and I'm an X-Men fan. The previous 3 seemed to have some intelligence, but this seems like it was made by some dumb-ass kid. I can't believe how many good reviews this has when almost everything about it was so poor.The acting: overwrought and embarrassing (especially January Jones who was like a Playboy bunny just learning to act).The characters: Prof. X - why the hell is he English all of a sudden? - was like a creepy, cheesy, horny David Cameron (which can never be appealing). Nothing like his character in the comics or other films - just bad and embarrassing. Magneto's accent came and went as it pleased (and I'm not even sure if it was ever supposed to be there, or what it was supposed to be), and he was as interesting as a piece of wood. Banshee was American, not Irish; Moira McTaggart was American, not Scottish. Unrealistic motivations and actions abound. The Beast's costume looked like Wolverine has rolled around in some blue fur and glue. Otherwise, it's a like a catwalk of one beautiful, posturing teen after another: every person, every random mutant, had to be young, beautiful, ripped, sexy - even if they were previously cab drivers or whatever. Totally unrealistic and all about image consciousness (ironic for the heavy-handed message about Mystique accepting herself).The structure: a lot of running around aimlessly, with one anti-climax after another.The setting: supposed to be early, pre-hippy 60s, but often came off like mid-late 60s, as if the set/costume/music people were a bunch of ignorami who just thought 'cool- 60s, mod, James Bond, shagadelic'. Really, really lame.The sexism: women are mainly there for eye candy, and to be models of insecurity, and any excuse to show them in lingerie, in strip clubs, T&A close-ups etc. is greedily taken. Emma Frost is instructed by Magneto to go get her some ice, and she does so like an obedient servant. Angel and her fellow prostitutes are all beautiful, happy and fit, willing servants for the pleasures of men - not depressed, shaking, acne-scarred women debasing themselves to feed their families or their habits. Really irresponsible film-making - and before anyone says "lighten up, it's just a movie", remember that the comics were really good - and realistic - about social issues (despite the women's skimpy costumes!).The racism: I can't believe reviewers haven't mentioned this - in a scene where Kevin Bacon says to Darwin (who is black), "So you have two choices, you can do nothing with your powers and be enslaved..." and at the word 'enslaved' the camera does a close-up on Darwin for a long few seconds... reinforcing the equation of black man = slave. Maybe the heavy-handed director was trying to suggest that Darwin would naturally relate to Bacon's speech given his race's history... but a few minutes later he's killed! - the old movie cliché' that the black man is always the first to die, once again! Truly an appalling piece of film-making, and not worth the half-price tickets I paid for.
__label__1 I want 2 hours of my life back! It was tedious, linear, uneventful, predictable, and dialogues often scrambled. This is not the worst film I ever saw, but I've seen lots of films, and this episode is perhaps the 4th worst ever. From top of my head I can name a few more bearable things. Say, IRS. I mentioned drying paint before. Even hangover can be more fun. Or toothache. Walking the streets alone, minding my own business is immensely more fun. To spare myself from future torture, I'll make sure to check the IMDb comments first, sorting them by the "hated it" criterion. Why suffer? I just hope my comment will save at least one person from suffering.
__label__1 I liked the first, I loved the second, I thought the extended trailer was silly (shoot down high-tech planes with a bow, also called Mockingjay Part 1), but then I was in for an ice cold shower. I haven't felt like this since listening to Jar Jar Binks.The first two Hunger Games movies prepare you for an epic battle between the rebels of District 13 against the Capitol, which could just as well be the Empire of Star Wars, led by an equally cunning president/emperor.However, instead of using all the lore that has been carefully built up, especially in Mockingjay Part 1, the producers/writer decided to keep the main cast as far away from action as possible. The heroes suddenly become actors instead of the warriors they had been in the previous movies. Everything is fake and nothing they do (or not do) is supposed to affect the story. On purpose! I have no idea what happened here. Did the writer die and someone else had to finish it? Did they outsource the production to a galaxy far, far away from the first two movies? I simply cannot believe that this was an accident. There has to be purpose to this letdown and I wish I knew what it is, but either way, Mockingjay Part 2 is the biggest disappointment since The Phantom Menace.
__label__1 All the series of The Hunger Games had a main element which was the emotion for "riots", "stand up for what is yours" while we all, mostly me expected the FINAL episode of The Hunger Games this to be the most expressed element they lacked of it a lot. Most of us while watching the the movie will find it boring impatiently waiting for what will happen at the end. It is disappointing to see such an awful final movie of the series Mockingjay. If i was the director when i would be seeing the movie for the first time i would not publish and either make a whole new film or not publish it at all. This film is meant for teenage girls which "fall in love" deeply in some of the characters and it disappointed all other "fans" which were having big expectations for the final film.
__label__1 This is by far, and by far i mean THE worst movie i have ever seen in my life. Horrible acting, full of cliché lines, completely out of context, story-line, you name it...I try to understand fans, try to understand people that loved the books, but oh lord, how can someone rate this with more than average ( at best ) is beyond me.Add to it horrible cgi, LOL-what-did-just-happened moments, just a total mess...I tortured my self to watch it to the end, just to be able to see how much nonsense one can fit into a movie, and oh boy was i not disappointed. I thought Final Destination movies had the most transparent scripts ever - wrong again.
__label__1 War movies have always been a favourite genre for me, and in Mockingjay we get war in all it's horror and heroism all tied into a comprehensive and intelligent bundle that is carried effortlessly by Jennifer Lawrence. The direction keeps us focused on Lawrence, she is in 95% at least of the scenes and she dominates. Her portrayal of Katniss as a damaged, fragile and very young girl who is also the main prop of a rebellion against horrific oppression is spellbinding.The fact that the script makes no concessions to the action junkie is IMO at least, only to be commended. The rest of the cast seem to have been inspired by her formidable work. Everybody has raised their game to match her, I can not think of a weak link in the rest of the cast's. performances. Liam Hemsworth at last make Gale real. There are too many really to list here. Stand outs for were Josh Hutcherson's Peeta,. Elizabeth Banks Effie, Philip Seymour Hoffman's Plutarch and of course Donald Sutherland's Corialanus Snow. A great story needs a great villain and his Snow is both fascinating and repellent.And on a final closing note, this film makes the eternal whining of the. so-called Battle Royale 2: Requiem 'fans' look more pathetic than ever and leaves you scratching your head wondering what film they saw.
__label__1 Here's the spoiler. Jay Baruchel is the worst actor in the history of films. Every word is punctuated by jerky, spasmatic over-exaggerated movements, facial tics, cartoonish expressions, and basically just the worst acting ever caught on screen. In a 150 million dollar summer blockbuster. Just watch, and pay special attention to Jay. You can watch an "actor" literally ruin a movie right before your eyes.Nicolas Cage is his usual awful acting self, but next to Baruchel he looks like the world's greatest thespian. This could have been a half decent, special effects driven popcorn movie, but Jay makes it just horrible and unwatchable.
__label__1 This movie is just awful, sadly enough Nicholas Cage chose not to pass on this piece of crap. The worst thing about this movie is Jay Baruchel. If I could ignore his annoying acting, and all sorts of annoying noises he made (mostly "ohhh, ohhh god, ohhh man, ohhh ohhh ohhh, ohhh nooo, ahh ahh ahh"), then maybe just maybe I could ignore the sad excuse for a mega budge summer movie script. Worst thing about Baruchel's dialogue is he keeps repeating words, combined with his annoying voice the overall acting is just too awful to bear for more than 5 minutes. Funny thing is Baruchel's character at a younger age was just as annoying. So, for the most part I blame the character for the annoyance. Walt Disney really needs to fire the person responsible for taking this project on. This is a very bad movie. Only reason I watched it is because of Nicholas Cage, but his reputation just took a beating for me. Really disappointing movie for Nicholas Cage. 0/10
__label__1 Warning This contains spoilers:This movie was cheese from beginning to end.You know when you see those specials about Rules for Disaster Movies and how they all follow certain rules..I think this one followed every rule in the book.Characters were one dimensional, they were clichéd - You have someone who is afraid of small spaces and they are going to have to face their fear to survive.You have the single mom and her son which is a pain in the a$$ kid who goes missing - twiceYou have the one that ones to be the leader of the group who funnily enough at the start wants to go it alone You have the father / daughter where the father doesn't trust the daughter and the daughter is trying to be her own woman and in the end the father ends up giving his life up so her daughter can be happy and be with her new fiancé - Where have I seen this before?? Oh thats right - Armageddon. You have the annoying drunk which ends you are supposed to hate so they die so that seems like a just death.Anyways, so the characters are clichéd and so are the circumstances, this movie could have been better if it had more special effects but it only have a small wave. I thought this kind of movie which was clichéd went out in the 70's and 80's, at least disaster movies these days if they follow the clichés do it subtlety, and it also has good special effects to help keep it afloat, this movie was so obvious in its clichés.Also did I miss something - as where did they get the lifeboat and flare gun from in the end?Also some more convenient circumstances - 1) guy goes down to reverse the engines so they can all live and cant find the button is just about to die and with his last dying breath finds and presses the button2) they all escape the ship just as it goes down3) two helicopters appear moments after firing off a flare gunand hows some of the dialogue.. I think it was Richard Dreyfuss who says I'm an architect so I know ships aren't designed to stay afloat upside down.. Since when does it require to be an architect to work this out??This movie was a shame and feels like it jumped right out of the 70's disaster era. This is one of the worst movies I have seen
__label__1 If only negative scores were possible. This was truly the worst movie I saw last year.I WANT THE NINETY MINUTES OF MY LIFE THIS PIECE OF RAW SEWAGE STOLE FROM ME. Wolfgang Petersen, you should have to turn in your DGA card for this. A putrid remake of a movie that was only fair to begin with.... That takes chutzpah.A quick synopsis of the plot, such as it is: A badly-rendered CGI big boat, full of badly-rendered character types played by current B- and D-list performers (Josh Lucas, Emmy Rossum, Kevin Dillon) as well as former A-listers who need to fire their current agents (Kurt Russell, Richard Dreyfuss), gets knocked upside-down by an equally badly-rendered CGI wave fifteen minutes into the first reel, before we get any real reason to care about anyone in the cast, but not before we're subjected to Fergie of the Black-Eyed Peas "singing". Twenty seconds into that song (someone obviously thought it would be a sure-fire hit) and you're rooting for the wave to just sink the boat and put her out of our misery.But no; a ragtag group of survivors led by Russell (ex-NYC mayor, formerly a firefighter-- how lucky is that?!?) and Lucas (ex-Navy diver-- how lucky is that?!?) start making their grim way to the now-exposed to air hull, before the ship takes on enough water that it sinks blah blah blah. The blatant sops to the right-wingers in the crowd made me throw up in my mouth several times; note that the "girls" and the "sissy" are really no help (you gotta have a He-man firefighter or ex-military guy to get you out of these scrapes!), and how about that lucky crucifix that doubles as a flat-blade screwdriver and air vent remover ("Thank you Jeey-sus for the $8.95 someone spent at a swap meet for you!!")? And we still have to wait an hour before Petersen remembers to kill off Fergie. Don't think we forgot about her, Wolfie. We were patient far too long.Thankfully I didn't spend a dime to see this piece of junk. I watched every minute of it, getting angrier and angrier at the sheer contempt in which the makers obviously hold the viewing public, and couldn't hit the "Erase" button on my DVR fast enough after. Simply horrible.
__label__1 OK, I kind of see the necessity the filmmakers behind Poseidon felt in remaking the 1972 disaster classic, The Poseidon Adventure; what with the state of the art special effects advances that have transpired in the last thirty four years. With that said, there's no amount of wizardry that can hold a candle to the effect that was Shelly Winters chutzpah as Mrs. Rosen in the original. I could do a laundry list of reasons why the original cast of survivors - Gene Hackman, Ernest Borgnine, Stella Stevens, Pammy Sue Martin and even Carol Lynley - blow the new cast including Kurt Russell, bargain basement Matthew McConaughey Josh Lucas, Richard Dreyfus as a despondent gay man who can get cell phone reception at sea, Emmy Rossum and Fergie of The Black Eyed Peas (going by her Kids Incorporated given name of Stacy Ferguson) out of the water. But that would involve giving a lick about any of the characters, which I didn't. And, the reason they leave us high and dry is because the characterizations are about as subtle as the wave that capsizes the boat: I'm rebellious, I'm suave, I'm a single mom, etc. might as well be tattooed on everyone's foreheads, and not even for clarity's sake- just so that the actor's could remember who they are playing, because the audience certainly won't. There is no character development whatsoever, which makes an audience disengaged and not want to root for these people. I wished the wave that capsizes the boat had left nary a survivor, which transpires fifteen minutes into this disaster of a flick. At the twenty five minute mark, a man (the captain, I think, but who knows in this movie) announces to the passengers that they have most likely been struck by a "rogue wave," which can be "dangerous." Really? Is that why they are standing on what used to be the ceiling? At that point I turned off the movie in disgust, feeling cheapened that I had cheated on the original, one of my all time favorite movies. Chalk it up to if it ain't broke, don't fix it! That's twenty five minutes I'll never get back, I could have gotten an early start on my income taxes, or been partway through a root canal in the time it took me to realize I had chosen unwisely.
__label__1 Paul Gallico's novel, published in 1969, is not so much a disaster novel, as it is a grim character study of people caught up in a disaster. The book is gripping in it's savage brutality. The character's are stripped of all pretensions, and self delusions. They reveal more and more of their inner selves as they climbed further and further into the ship.The 1972 film only hinted at this. The Hallmark TV film, only had conventional characters who reacted in conventional and unsurprising ways to the various challenges.Now, Wolfgang Peterson has stripped the story of all humanity and created what amounts to a two hour film in which the audience watches a very large kinetic sculpture designed to destroy itself. The actors seem to be more like cogs and wheels in that sculpture than human beings. There is no character development and no plot. Yes, the special effects are fantastic, especially as the wave strikes and capsizes the ship. The sets are stunning but sterile, and the action is absolutely nonstop. And THAT is all the film has going for it. Peterson seems to be catering to those with minds only developed enough to pay attention to movement and pretty lights, like a small baby watching a mobile hung over its crib.Many of the actors are quite good. We know that because of their past bodies of work. Unfortunately, in this film they may as well have had animated wax figures playing their roles. True, the Irwin Allen film had a number of overblown and hammy performances, but those actors at least had something to bite into. A lobotomized Frances Farmer would have been able to handle these empty insignificant characters. In interviews, Richard Dreyfuss commented that he did this film for money. I certainly understand that! He definitely didn't do it because it was a great part. He played a gay man, suicidal and depressed because his lover has left him. Unfortunately his being gay seemed rather gratuitous. Publicity for the film stated that he suddenly discovers he very much wants to live. This also seemed gratuitous.Kurt Russell plays the role of a former NYC firefighter and mayor and seems to have fallen into the real life role of aging action hero making way for younger action hero. Kevin Dylan plays a character named Lucky Larry, who seemed obviously patterned after computer game icon Leisure Suit Larry. His character would have been quite enjoyable had he not been so reprehensible.As far as the rest of the cast went, you may as well have taken them like so many Barbie and Ken dolls, popped off their heads and interchanged them.The costumes were pretty much what you might expect to see aboard ship on New Year's Eve, but nothing strikingly great. The only one that stood out was the singer (who I understand is a member of The Black-eyed Peas). It was so awful, I mistook her for a Charo impersonator. But at least it stood out.One thing I must give the filmmakers an A+ on. The underwater shots of the ship were extraordinarily impressive. The attention to detail with all the debris and parts of the ship breaking away seemed very realistic. I do have a final question, however (and a nit-picky one at that). Do they no longer bolt down tables and other large furniture aboard luxury liners?
__label__1 When a tsunami capsizes a luxury liner, a small band of supposedly disparate passengers struggle to survive...Horrible remake of the 1972 classic, complete with interchangeable young brunette women, bland heroes (and heroics), annoying child and VERY little else. The script is beyond bad - this viewer felt sorry for the actors having to spout such crappy lines, and the casting choices are quite shocking, with utterly forgettable female characters and only Dreyfuss (hopefully being paid squillions for this garbage) offering a smidgeon of characterisation. It actually made me feel nostalgic for the tawdry 2005 TV remake... a repellent damp squib if ever there was one. AVOID!
__label__1 The reason I saw this film was because I've been a fan of the novel by Paul Gallico and the original classic for sometime now. I had high hopes for the film, and they weren't met. Poseidon is an especially unnecessary remake. As happens so often with remakes, the re-makers squander the original's appeal, as if they have no idea why 1972's The Poseidon Adventure was a hit. Video games must have influenced the film, too. As an intrepid group of characters make their way through the bowels of an overturned ocean liner, they're tested by one chamber of death after another.Knowing so little about Poseidon's characters, it's difficult to care about their fates. On the contrary, characters in The Poseidon Adventure are practically members of the family. The acting wasn't anything special, and most of them where B-list celebrities who where trying to get noticed by the public, to re-establish their careers.Overall, this film wasn't anything above average. And will never be anything compared to the 1972 classic. Don't waste your time on this one, it isn't worth it.1/10 See It If You Liked: The Poseidon Adventure and Titanic -Luke Rowe
__label__1 Creating everything with computers is causing total lack of authenticity. Boat looked so fake and so did the "tidal" wave, not to mention a bunch of other "special effects" were so obviously nothing more than computer generated. As to storyline... er, where was the liner heading? What caused freak wave? Would have been more convincing with them sailing into major storm. How far from land were they and where did the helicopters magically come from? I honestly think the original version was better and that's saying something. Everyone entitled to own opinion, but I think its time Hollywood pulled something original out of the hat, and stopped with the re-makes. And as far a computer technology goes, its a great thing to have but it doesn't always work up there on the big screen.
__label__1 Simply horrible! I don't even know where to start. The story was weak, a very basic "problem after a problem adventure movie". I did not get any feel for the characters in the movie and all the dialogs were out of place and clichéd.The effects were OK but I have to wonder what's with the explosions, why does every movie have to have thousands of things exploding and a wall of fire closing down from behind. This movie is another good example that you cant make a movie based on effects, you kinda need a story as well.I cant think of anything good about this movie and so cant recommend this movie to anyone.
__label__1 Before I shatter this film, I would like to say that I do respect the filmmakers of Hollywood (somewhat). They are creative geniuses that have transcended the art of filmmaking time and time again. They have continuously pushed the boundaries, especially when it comes to bringing astounding visual effects to the big screen.However, the art of storytelling has become lost on them. This is primarily because conglomerates have bought out the studios. A movie is merely a commodity to the shareholders. The question they pose themselves before financing a movie is this: Do we already have a built in audience for this story? If there isn't already a built in audience, good luck getting the film financed. With that being said, it is clear that storytelling is the last priority of Hollywood. Through the Looking Glass is a prime example of this. No matter how many groundbreaking visual effects they throw on the screen, the plot stinks. There was no suspense. Very little irony. No interesting characters. No memorable scenes. No compelling conflict and dynamics between the characters. The entire premise of the film was based on Alice saving the Mad Hatter from his illness. Yet, I could really care less. The story reflects nothing about the human condition. It raises no intriguing questions. Not to mention that the plot itself is aimless and disjointed. It meanders along, zipping in different directions without a clear focus and purpose. One wonders how a script like this even gets greenlit. Maybe this is what audiences have come to accept. Maybe it's our culture that is the problem. However, I won't lay down without making my voice heard. When the credits rolled, I personally booed the film. My girlfriend tried to get me to shut up.Story is a metaphor for life. Compelling characters represent something about each of us. We relate to them on different levels. We witness the actions they take, and say "Ah, I would've done the same." or "Wow. I would've never done that, but I can understand why they did it." The problem with fantasy films like this is that they are so far disconnected from reality that they literally represent nothing. So I shall pose a challenge to those reading this review who have seen or intend to see this film: watch Alice, then watch a movie like Birdman, The Social Network, Nightcrawler, Fury, or a TV series like Breaking Bad, then compare the two. I guarantee that you'll find yourself much more emotionally fulfilled upon watching one of the films I mentioned. Not all superhero/fantasy films are trash. But Through the Looking Glass was an egregious example of all special effects, but a junk plot.
__label__1 First off if you are looking to be magically transported to the pages of this beloved children's story, please prepare yourself to be sadly disappointed. The only thing this film has to do with anything from the book is the characters. The story is as ridiculous as the absolutely exhausting Red Queen baby talking and The Mad Hatters stupid lispy over acting. Both are equally annoying through the entire film. You actually just want to shake Johnny Depp and beg him to stop. I understand film makers taking some creative license in adapting a book to film but this is just pathetic. I can't understand how this movie was even allowed to be released with the title of Alice Through the Looking Glass. It made wish there was a looking Glass that I could jump through to escape having to finish the film, but as I was with family I had to endure it til the end.
__label__1 This film is a classic example of a studio's desire to make money. The first one did so well, over a billion dollars world wide, that they felt they had to make a sequel. Well, guess what studio! It will take a miracle for this film to make as much as the first one. Overall the film was terrible. The story was terrible. The acting was terrible. In fact, to me it seemed as if they dumbed down the characters. The characters, including Alice, were not very likable. The best scene in the movie is the opening scene. In this scene Alice is portrayed as smart, daring, brave, and a strong leader. Then she gets to wonderland and she suddenly makes a lot of decisions without really thinking them through and they aren't good. The special effects. I don't know that I would call the special effects terrible, but they were definitely over done. Cinematography, not impressed. The occasional close facial shot is nice, but this film has way too many. In the end, it was a WASTE OF TIME! Not only a waste of my time, but a waste of the studio's time. It took them six years to make this film. They clearly did not use their time wisely. I recommend the studio executives re-watch this film, assuming they have already seen it. Perhaps it will teach them how valuable time is.
__label__1 The first movie wasn't great by any stretch of the imagination but this movie was a disaster and I'm shocked how it even received the go ahead to be released.The story is weak, drawn out and boring , at no point was I excited or even interested throughout the movie , I just wanted it to end.Another poor performance by depp, who seems to just cash in whenever he can in poor movies with the same performances. He's so annoying in this movie , and this stupid way he talks and the way he moves his mouth is just annoying. He is annoying and so is his character. Depp isn't the only one though, the acting by every character is poor , Bonham Carter with the same annoying voice and movement she does in pretty much every film she's in, Hathaway just looks lost through the whole movie , no expression what so ever , a blow up doll could have played her character.It's really really bad , don't waste your time watching this stuff .
__label__1 Spoiler-Free Review. Easily the worse movie I've seen this year. The 2010 version of Alice in Wonderland wasn't a great movie but at least is was entertaining and even watchable at times. This on the other hand is complete garbage. The plot plays like a last minute fan-fiction story you'll find on Reddit. The acting is unimpressive and screams of "I'm just making this film because of the paycheck." I went into this movie knowing it wasn't going to be as good as the 2010 film but after almost 15 minutes into the film, I started yawning. At least five people started scrolling on their smartphones about halfway into the film and no one cared, in fact we all understood why. I was tempted to pull out my phone and play around but I hate people who do that during a movie and I didn't want to be one of them. Without giving anything away, the biggest problem with the movie isn't the fact that it is boring. Oh God, it is boring af. But no, that isn't the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that it is just stupid. It is like they made this movie for kids who like watching The Minions movies just because the minions act and do dumb things. This movie must have been a last minute rush job. Anyway. On the bright side, this movie is very forgettable.
__label__1 The Book "Through the Looking Glass," like it's predecessor, "Alice's Adventures In Wonderland," is a charming and witty piece of nineteenth century political satire which is based on a chess game (unlike it's predecessor, which is based upon a card game). But like it's predecessor, it works both as satire (for adults) and fantastic adventure (for children). Both books were written for the Alice Liddle, a young girl at the time and friend of author Lewis Carroll, a childless clergyman and mathematician. The original Disney animated film combined the books much more accurately and never went so far over the top as to lose the essential spirit of the originals. Even the political satire was still present, though dulled by time and overwhelmed by the magic of animation. However, this film and it's predecessor concentrate almost exclusively on eye-popping visuals and fantastic everything, losing sight of the political satire altogether. Plus, the absurd shipboard wrapper to the basic story is totally unnecessary and misleading. Apparently, two screenplays were mashed together in an awkward and contrived effort to reinvent the story for today's audiences. Why? Obviously, to showcase the (admittedly) extraordinary computer graphics and special effects skills Hollywood currently has at its disposal. And give the actors another chance to dress funny, wear weird makeup, and act crazy. The original story is fantastic, agreed, but it is a lot more than that. Both of these new interpretations stop at the fantastic and miss all the rest. Turn the sound off and ignore the naval wrapper, try to forget the original books, and this film can be enjoyed as a visual feast. It might help to get high first. Otherwise, you may wonder if anyone was actually in charge. Maybe everyone was in charge!You more serious viewers, try watching Disney's animated "Alice In Wonderland" from 1951 and Jim Henson's "Labyrinth."In the world of traditional art, one basic rule of thumb is "Less Is More." Here, we get, as with so many of today's special effects driven films, "More Is Less."
__label__1 After the disappointing we X-Men Apocalypse comes a horrible film called Alice:Just Give Us Your Money,We Are Running Out of Ideas Movie,that came out the same day and boy it was another boring movie.The film it's not tasty but instead bland or insipid,that's what I felt watching the film.The whole film was a wasted potential with good visual effects but suffered from a plot that is not worthy of it.Characters are underdeveloped and bland, It has nothing special to give to the audience but give us another unnecessary sequel.It lacks so many things that it film wanted to be like excitement,enjoyment and a fun to it but gives us a dull boring one with wasted potentials and an annoying and uninteresting characters.The film is just soulless and lackluster.
__label__1 Shrek Forever after is by far superior to this film and every other shrek movie. The best part of this film is that it sets up Shrek 4.
__label__1 Shrek 3 trusts it's audience so little and has squandered so much good will in it's effort to milk cash from viewers, that it places it's characters on screen and nervously has them do stupid, "funny" things to reignite your interest and get the movie rolling. For fifteen minutes it barely considers plot, because maybe you don't like plot. So how about another pratfall?When a funeral is held and the song "Live and Let Die" is mined for unavailable laughs, you begin to understand just how bad this is going to be. The creators talked themselves into a dumb pop culture reference without any understanding of the damned song. The song is about revenge: The scene is about revenge about as much as Star Wars is about French Structuralism... so what the hell is it doing here? Hey guys, consider reading a book some time; then when you propose a joke you can know when what you have isn't funny. It's called "having depth." Instead of admiring a writer's cleverness, a viewer sits in the theater envisioning the limp team meeting where that idea was born, accompanied by desperate, wrong-headed titters from weak minds.Mike Myers should move on and find yet another movie to shoehorn his tiresome Scottish accent into.For the record the humans in this series have always creeped me out.
__label__1 I got tipsy off pumpkin martinis and thought this might be a good watch, it was on HBO's free viewing weekend last week. Now I can see why.The use of music in this film is downright disturbing. I wish they could just have a score for this film. The use of "Live or Let Die" didn't make any sense in a funeral, like another reviewer said. I was almost getting mad about it. It is about killing someone, not about mourning, any idiot would know that. The use of Immigrant Song is also a problem. It isn't funny the way it is used and it's the point of that song either, neither is the Heart song, Barracuda when the women are fighting. It's a love song, so it makes no sense as a fighting song, maybe Live or Let Die could have gone there instead. Then there's Rock and Roll High School in the high school scene, which is not very funny at all.I did like Pinocchio and Puss in Boots, but those are because their characters haven't been made overly hip by the writers. All the women characters were made into stereotypes, like Snow White, etc. I did think it was amusing when Sleeping Beauty kept falling asleep, yet in a way that didn't make sense because once she was awakened by her prince, she was up for good. Then the rest seemed to be fart and vomit jokes. Or jokes that fell flat. Or constant references to things that weren't funny. I guess the music was so us adults could reference them...wow, there's that lame "I've never been to me" song, awesome, I was just thinking about that the other day...oh wait, I wasn't!!! But I think they were trying to do that so the adults would get something out of it and it failed.Even for free, the movie is a waste of time and if I had kids, I wouldn't want them to watch this. It's really stupid and there are so many better kids' films out there that don't try to be hip and urban to the lack of plot line. There's more to life than pop culture, not to say this movie couldn't have done that a little if there was a plot, I hardly saw any plot...everything just seemed humorless and not having spirit. So the Shrek empire should probably end with this one...I mean, when everyone starts having kids...it's time to jump the Shrek right?
__label__1 Of any sequel to any movie I have ever seen, Shrek the Third has to be the worst I have ever had the displeasure of sitting through. When a movie is this bad I usually will stop watching it, but I thought that maybe it would go somewhere. Well, it did. Reference the movie title, Flushed Away. This is what anyone who was connected to this farce should have insisted on happening. The storyline is plausible. The King is dying and must name an heir. At first Shrek is asked to become the new King, but the little experience Shrek has had with being royal has not worked out. The scene where he and Fiona are all decked out in royal attire is painful. Not just to the characters, even though they were just drawn, in wearing such uncomfortable clothing, but to the viewer who must endure this torture as well. So off our hero and his side-kicks must go and get the next in line, a wallflower-type geek, Arthur. Oh yea, before they are out of earshot Shrek learns that he will soon be a dad. I have read that some people say that it's because of Justin Timberlake that this movie was ruined, but like everyone else, all he supplied was a voice. A monotonous, squeaky one, but a voice just the same. In fact, it seemed from what I could tell just by listening to everyone's voices, that no one seemed to be really into their characters at all. Jokes and scenes that worked well for the 1st 2 movies did not work for the 3rd movie, and in fact, besides being stale, no longer had any appeal. That there is a 4th, and possibly a 5th Shrek, is scary. Be afraid. Be very afraid.
__label__1 Worst of the 3. Hang on, didn't I say that about Oceans 13 yesterday? It must be Groundhog Day then.Mike Myers brings back Shrek for a third run and there's no plot, no story and none of the great little one screen jokes we had with the previous 2 Shrek films.King Harold is dying (actaully he dies) and Shrek doesn't want to be King so he goes off to look for the next heir to the throne of Far Far Away.And Prince Charming takes over the kingdom while he's gone.The rest of the story is Shrek trying to persuade Arthur to be King, trying to face up to the idea he's going to be a father, Their journey back to Far Far Away and the rescue of Fiona and her friends which turns into the rescue of Shrek.Exceptionally weak plot, the film stumbles from scene to scene and shows no imagination at all.Extremely BORING and best avoided. This will go straight to DVD.
__label__1 Yeah so ill receive many glares at this review but i can only be honest with my opinion here. Having watched this movie and upon ending seeing hundreds of people around me applaud it left me in total bemusement! Perhaps i was over expecting for this movie but besides the really well made CGI, i was left in utter disappointment. I mean, how can we as movie lovers and somewhat "part time critics" actually completely ignore that this movie was not well made?? I get that we're lovers of Warcraft and its massive franchise as well as having been so attached to its characters for so many years just as i have been, but to say that the movie was brilliant is absolutely misguided to the fact that the acting was one of the worst i have ever seen in any movie ever made. Not only that but there was little to no thought at all put behind fight scenes. Did we all watch the same movie or am i missing something here? Surely fight choreography could have been taken seriously? Having spent loads of money on CGI why not add a little diversity to a battle? Whoever swung a sword first would defeat his opponent...zero blocking, zero shields used...why did any of them have shields anyway?? Scenes were rushed in and rushed out, the rookie Madge was so badly played by someone who can barely act. Please re-watch the movie and look at his facial expressions or even his acting skills for goodness sake! This disappoints me because it was like "okay we're going into this movie and we're just going to love it because its Warcraft and we've been waiting for this all our lives". Give me a break! The potential this movie had for so much more is crazy and yet we all turn a blind eye to what matters most about a movie spectacle all because we're thinking emotionally. Sorry but i enjoy watching a well made movie and this movie was far from well made. #notsorry
__label__1 The Terminator franchise started with a low-budget thriller film that introduced a very interesting and compelling story about a woman who is a target of a ruthless man from the future that turns up to be a cyborg. It was a simple yet good story and a good piece of science fiction. Why was it a good film? Well, for starters, the bad guy, i.e the terminator, according to Kyle Reese, doesn't feel pain or pity, can't be reasoned with, can't be bargained with. It was the perfect killer, and almost invincible. So there you got all the elements of a good story.Then came Terminator 2: Judgement day. Here things start to get weird with the new T-1000, because it was the result of CGI of that time. The whys and hows of the T-1000 were cleverly hidden away and never discussed. The story was good: here Sarah Connor wants to change history and the new terminator ends up showing a window of opportunity.T3 came along and stuff started to crumble. T3 makes no sense. A seemingly old terminator that goes back because a "more advanced" (and absurd) terminator came to yet again kill John Connor. They used preposterous ideas justified by the fact that it is a "fiction" film (i.e the stuff about controlling automobiles with a "virus": cars don't work like that). Well, even fiction must be based on some rules, and T3 simply disregards these rules, and that is what makes it so bad.Salvation came and it was good. Honestly, I don't see why people freak out about Salvation, because it was consistent, it makes actual sense. It looks like a war zone between our present and that future we see in the first films. There are no crazy liquid-metal things this time, only "normal" cyborgs and there were very nice references to the first two films. I have no idea why people hate it. It is not a thriller, but action, but then T3 isn't a thriller either, nor is T2, so that is a very bad reason to hate TS.And now came Genisys, with the typo in the name.The film starts with a disturbing change: the judgment day occurred, apparently, in 1997. It means that the whole second film was thrown in the rubbish bin. Sarah's efforts were pointless, apparently Skynet wasn't destroyed after all. But maybe I was confused, so I'll just ignore this and move on.The film introduces an interesting idea: since the future already changed before, Skynet was aware of John's plan to send Kyle Reese and attacks him (John) before he tears the time machine apart, altering the whole story.But this leads to a series of confusing events that end up having a terminator sent to kill Sarah when she was 9 and another to protect her. Then the "good" terminator ends up "raising" Sarah to have the face of Emilia Clarke instead of Linda Hamilton and both prepare for the arrival of a disturbingly different Kyle Reese in 1984.Then appears the original terminator, apparently unaware it was not the first assigned to kill Sarah, and a T-1000 was apparently sent to kill Kyle (it is never explained who was the target).Then instead of waiting for the right time, Emilia Clarke decides to build a time machine and go to 1997 stop Skynet. But Kyle, as explained by some pseudo-science theory, has memories of an alternate childhood (go figure), and knows Skynet goes berserk in 2017. So they go to 2017 and find out that there is this software which is a mixture of Apple, Google and Facebook called Genisys that for no reason is being used on mobiles, hospitals, and even the army and is going to be "available" at precisely the time of judgment day, even though it is already being used.John Connor shows up in 2017 looking like Jason Clarke, and we assume he was cast because he shares the same surname with Emilia, and he is a cyborg because Skynet itself was contained inside a cyborg and it managed to replace every cell in John Connor for nano-technology. He wants to turn his parents into machines and he inexplicably not only defends Skynet, but he created Genisys himself.So John Connor is the bad guy! And he is a terminator who created Skynet! Schwarzenegger tries to kill him, but Sarah points a gun to his... head, and.. it makes no sense.They then invade this company that developed Genisys and end up stumbling on the same computer interface used in Resident Evil: Skynet for some reason has several projectors in the place with the hologram of a child that tries to convince the heroes that they are doomed and you wonder why Skynet wastes time talking to them if it really thinks that, but the holograms make funny noises when they cross the light and you give up trying to understand.In the end Schwarzenegger kills Jason Clarke by getting into this unfinished time-machine with a giant magnet, while Kyle and Sarah explode the building, but in the last second Schwarzenegger falls into the metal goo that would be the T-1000s and even though a T-1000 cannot emulate complex machinery because it has moving parts and all that (check T2), he inexplicably blends just fine with the goo and becomes "updated". Oh, that trick is used before too. So even though stuff exploded, the terminator "survives".So the film ends leaving a feeling of "what the hell I just saw", and I wonder why people find this any better than T3 and why Terminator Salvation is considered worse. It is beyond me. Really people, something is wrong here.So if you like Terminator, go see it. If you liked Salvation, I'm so sorry, but it didn't turn into a trilogy and they just "terminated" a good project.
__label__1 What is there to say? A quick summery: Everything is over the top. Instead of using one good idea like T1 and T2 they try to cram as many (bad) ideas as possible into one movie. We get like 4 terminators, 3 time machines, 3 time periods, an app that is about to take over the world, nonstop cheesy one liners, to many 'funny' moments, to many plot twists. Ridiculous characters. A high school princess as Sarah Connor. B-grade acting. Generic action. A senior terminator attempting comedy.The worst part: it has no tension buildup at all. What made T1 and T2 such great movies was the suspense of being chased by one (not 3) almost completely indestructible machine. That haunting feeling, done so well in the past, is totally missing. Overall it felt more like a poorly executed attempt at comedy with a convoluted mess of a plot. This is a new low point in the franchise with a terminator named 'pops' saying awkward lines and doing creepy smiles. This is Terminator for the marvel generation. Braindead entertainment at its finest. Sadly a growing trend in Hollywood.Please tell me this was just a fan made parody and the actual movie is still under development, right?
__label__1 I am so disgusted with this movie and its rating that I have decided to sign up here for the first time and write my opinion. There is no way this movie is a 7.0/10. Not even close and it never will be. If this is a 7.0 then Salvation is a 14.0/10. James Cameron should be ashamed for even entertaining the idea that this movie is good. He has made me realize that everyone can be bought for the right amount. I hope he got paid a lot of money to say "If you are a terminator fan, you will love this movie", because he has lost a lot of respect with that statement. Hope it was worth it James!I waited for this movie every day counting down as the days go by. I went to see it with my wife and I felt sorry for her she had to sit through the eye ball torture. I wanted to walk out a couple of times after countless cheesy jokes and terrible acting but I didn't. I thought I would stick through it because it has to get better until I witnessed the helicopter scene. At that moment I realized that the terminator franchise is nothing more than a childhood dream. Anyone who rated this movie above 3 stars on here is either getting paid by someone or 13 years old since after all it was a PG-13 movie.Terminator 1 was good. I rate 8/10.Terminator 2 was great. I rate 9/10.Terminator 3 was decent, hated the overly futuristic female T-X. Ending was good and we finally see Judgement Day. I rate 6/10.Salvation was good once you got passed Bale's Batman voice. At least it was getting into the future war and heading the right direction after T3. No fancy robots, just cold steel cyborgs with one acceptable twist (Marcus). The T600 was awesome. I rate 7/10.Than comes Genisys, a Saturday Night Live skit at best. Was this a wannabe comedy or a terminator movie? We have a Kyle Reese that is cocky and looks like he should be the Terminator. Probably worst acting I have seen in a movie. We have John Connor that is some weird combination of human/nano technology/robot/liquid metal that is so far out there that it is stupid. Yes, stupid. We have the new Sarah which is not so bad other than the weird interactions between her and Kyle. It was awkward at best. We have Pops who is the terminator who is a father figure and competes with Kyle for his "daughter's" approval. He awkwardly smiles a lot and repeats the same punch lines over and over as if we didn't get it the first 6 times. It is border line offensive to average human intelligence. Add to that ridiculous scenes like the helicopter chase towards the end which defies logic and I am ready to question anyone's intelligence who rates this movie as anything above a joke.Some people say "it was a fun summer flick, lighten up and just enjoy it for the action". What action? The crap CGI all over and helicopters from starwars? The T800s looked better in the originals. I wanted to enjoy it and went in with an open mind not expecting much but I wasn't prepared for what I actually witnessed. It was the worst summer flick I have ever seen that has actually insulted me for wanting to watch it. (if that's even possible) It was a joke and a mockery at best. It can't be taken seriously even if you wanted to. It fails at being a terminator movie. It fails at being a "true sequel to T1&T2". It fails at being funny. It fails at having ground breaking CGI. If fails at having a story. It fails at character development. It fails at having good sound effects. The music is TERRIBLE! It even destroys the prequels timelines which I don't care for really if it was good. It has nothing going for it. I walked out of the theater dumbfounded at what I have just watched. My wife laughed at me and said "this is what you waited for all these months? WOW. Terminator 2 is still my favorite."
__label__1 Against all odds I was amazed I made it to the end of this movie. I only wish I could go back in time and tell my wife to talk me out of the suggestion I made to see Terminator Genisys. The original Terminator movie is a cult classic and yes, the remade scenes entertained me on a nostalgia level but as for the rest of the script, it played out like an episode of neighbours. The acting was terrible, the casting was terrible, the action sequences...If I said, give me $170 million dollars for me to take a dump and then I'll feed it to the masses and make a profit, you'd think I was insane - yet Hollywood does it again. Another 3 dimensional turd (yes I sadly paid the extra for the 3D which only really amounted to feeling like someone was actually shi**ing in my face) served up for the intellectually bereft to eat popcorn too. I don't know where these great reviews are coming from, but they're certainly not from Ireland, because in my cinema there was a general feeling of agitation and boredom about an hour into the movie. It felt like Arnie was trying to save the movie by explaining the plot to us, which simply didn't come together, as well as trying to plead with us that his acting days weren't over, even if they were limited to playing an emotionless robot - i.e. the role he has played in all his movies since the 80s.So here's the spoilers, if you can call them that:If I knew that a computer programme was being developed that was going to cause the end of humanity, or at least try to and I had a time machine that would enable me to "destroy skynet before it's born" would I really jump to just 24 hours before Judgement Day? I think I may have had the foresight to nip it in the bud a bit earlier.If I was in a bus that flipped and was completely mangled, hanging off a bridge, and I was initially sitting in a passenger seat without a seat belt, I would expect...well..I wouldn't expect anything, I'd be dead. Hardened soldier as he is though, Kyle Reece steps out with the obligatory scratch on his forehead. At one point I thought they were going to reveal that they were all T1000's, the amount of physical abuse they could take.If I could essentially break myself into a floating atomic state, I wouldn't then spend my time struggling to pull myself off a lamp-post through my guts - I would simply float round it, or at least open up the hole so I could walk away without a struggle.If I was a hardened female self made soldier, I would expect that I would show some signs of physical fitness and muscular definition - sorry Emilia, but if the fate of humanity rested on you even being able to act like a militaryesque hero, I'd be guessing it was game over. She looked like she was struggling to run with the props. And yes I know "militrayesque" is not a word, so give it 3 minutes after reading this and it will probably appear in a US dictionary.If I had created an explosion that was enough to liquidate an entire compound around me, I doubt I would put my faith in a steel door to save me from the blast. Especially one that a sword handed T1000 has no problem puncturing with with his sword hands.I could go on...and on.As for the chemistry between the two leads, if there was a formula for this and we could create a bomb with it to be used on "Judgement Day", the fallout would turn everyone into Keanu Reeves, or Pinocchio.Just awful.All I can say is that all of you so called fans of the original that loved this movie, must have been the result of a 70's fertility drug gone wrong. Seriously, watch it again with your brain stem attached and tell me this even comes close to quality cinema.
__label__1 The story contains the existence of alternate timelines but if they exist you can have as many timelines as you want and the story will never end. Winning the battle against Skynet would mean nothing because the characters can travel back in time and it can happen all over again, forever and ever. Everything that happened in Terminator 1-5 will just be one of those timelines and anything can be changed at any time, including a win against Skynet if it ever happens. Also Terminator 1 didn't even need to happen if the Guardian could successfully protect Sarah Connor. Oh right, it's just an alternate timeline, so what's the point? Just create 20 or 30 timelines if you want the franchise to go on forever.
__label__1 There is really nothing to say about this film besides that it's a complete slap in the face to anyone who is a fan of the Terminator franchise. The plot is very tedious and the script is poorly thought out. For instance, nothing in this movie makes any sense whatsoever. And oh yes, I am going to spoil it for some folks.Basically, we have Kyle Reese sent by John Connor back in time to save Sarah Connor. But then, Sarah rescues Kyle, and is protected by a terminator dubbed "Pops" who saved her as a child. So Kyle, Sarah and Pops plot to prevent Judgement Day from ever happening. Apparently, "Genisys" was a project said to change the world, but it was really Skynet and was to bring forth Judgement Day. On top of that, John Connor turns out to be the bad guy, as he got attacked as he was sending Kyle, and then becomes something more than man and machine. Apparently, John is not Earth's hope but Skynet's hope. What? That is just stupid.Even for a time travel story it is incredibly illogical. In a world where time travel is possible, I am sure that time can be re-written in a way, but you have got to have logic. This "time travel" movie defies logic in every possible way.It's like, the whole thing revolved around John Connor, and Kyle, Sarah, and Pops successfully stopped Judgement Day. After all of that, Why would Sarah decide to have a John Connor? And if Sarah decides not to have a John Connor, then Kyle Reese would not have been sent back in the first place, and there would be no Terminators sent to kill Sarah. All of these changes in time would cause a paradox.It is also horribly miscast. Emilia Clarke, Jai Courtney, and Jason Clarke did not play their roles very well and they can barely act. Arnold Schwarzenegger, J.K. Simmons, Matt Smith and that kid (whatever his name is) who played young Kyle Reese are the only cast members who could act and were not completely miscast.Not even the special effects are good. Basically, it relies very heavily on CGI effects and it is very fake looking. The CGI in Terminator 2: Judgement Day looked great and was very impressive. But here, it is just very unbelievable and looks like a bad video game.It also had an attempt at comedy that did not work. For example, what was with that Grin that Pops often made. Was that supposed to be funny? I loved the first Terminator and Terminator 2: Judgement Day. Heck, I even enjoyed Rise of the Machines and Salvation for what they are. But Genisys was just a terrible mess and an insult to the franchise.Overall, I hated Terminator Genisys and I would not recommend it. If you are a Terminator fan, you will not like this film.
__label__1 ...lie down until the feeling goes away!Or better yet, go rent the first three Terminator movies, watching only the cool action moments and immediately fast-forwarding past every scene where anyone demonstrates anything resembling personality or acting ability. Because really, that's all this movie ever does.Seriously -- over and over again, every time sometime cool or interesting happens in this movie, a moment's thought will remind you that they're simply apeing a scene or shot from a prior film, and did it better with technology from a quarter-century ago! Hell -- they even stole the "quantum frequency matter" bit from Jim Cameron's treatment for his proposed (but never filmed) version of "Terminator 3"!Add to that the neutering the film underwent in order to squeak into a PG-13 rating, plus handing key roles in the story to the complete charisma-vacuums that are Jason Clarke and Jai Courtney (how do you even pronounce that -- does it rhyme with "die", or with "oy vey"?), and it becomes clear that the real disaster that we need to invent a time machine so that we can prevent it from ever happening, is this abomination on celluloid...
__label__1 Long gone are the good old days when the Terminator movies used to be a sci-fi thriller. The genre has been completely changed into a family action adventure movie, where many of the jokes seem to appeal to little kids like trying to make a robot smile. There was nothing thrilling about any of the action sequences, as they were all too similar to other big studio films from the past. The terminator battling himself had as much thrill as Lindsay Lohan fencing against herself at summer camp in the Parent Trap.The Guardian terminator seemed overly concerned about having Kyle Reese and Sarah Connor have a child, as he repeatedly asks "Did you mate?" He wants the two to get together and set the way for John Connor's parents. The emotional attachment Sarah Connor shows to Pops by hugging him is like one of the twins from Parent Trap hugging her parent.The trailers seemed to indicate that it was still a sci-fi thriller, but that was not the case.
__label__1 This movie the more I think about it is a shame to any Legacy of the Terminator series. If you are a real Terminator Fan you will want to kill yourself. I have watched T2 over 200 times at least, so many times.Honestly this movie was as bad as Jurassic World, it was like watching Hollywood turn into Cannibals and eat themselves to survive because they are so out of ideas they are going to the ends of the earth to come out with more Garbage like Jurassic Fark, Tommorowlandcrap, culttom mission retarded 2721 , these guys are such jokes its not even funny.Sarah Connors character made me want to punch everyone in the theater for no reasons because all she does the whole time is complain and moan, damn.The pulse rifles sounded nothing like the original sounds like a toy you buy at the dollar store. This was a train-wreck beyond anything you can think off until you really see this steaming pile of rotting McDonalds burgers vomited into your mouths.
__label__1 Worst Terminator ever and a mockery of everything that was credible before! The very first Terminator had that awesome tragic vibe and hopelessness about it, when Kyle Reese (the scarred, traumatised, thin man, grown up starving and surviving, as best as he could, in the world destroyed by war) was the only hope of the oblivious humanity, and even he didn't believe in himself, but made his ultimate sacrifice through pain, suffering and death, nonetheless. He and Sarah were just two regular human beings, children of their worlds.I can't believe they just re-wrote all of that, turning it all into... this. Now it's just a ridiculous, plastic action film with no soul.The actors are cardboards. The way they act has no resemblance to the original characters. Jai Courtney is NOT Kyle and Emilia Clarke is, most definitely, NOT Sarah. It doesn't look like they even tried. If I was that bad at my job, I would've been sacked. The two shouldn't have even been considered in the first place.Thanks for ruining another great franchise, Hollywood!
__label__1 I say this with a heavy heart, believe you me but this, in my honest opinion was one of the worst films I've ever seen. It hurt me, Im genuinely distraught.When I heard they were producing a new Terminator I was apprehensive, what started out as a once great franchise has been marred with misgivings for quite some time but I wanted to believe it could be something again. At the very least I was expecting some thrills and a mildly entertaining action film, what I got was a train wreck of muddled plot points, illogical structures and a complete crumbling of a much beloved film franchise.Im a fan of the Terminator franchise, while 3 and Salvation are often considered pretty dire, I honestly thought thats as low as you could get but this film s*&ts all over those two. It disregards absolutely everything we appreciated about 1 & 2. The whole story is a confused mess and I genuinely found it boring, I love cinema yet I found myself staring at my watch more than once throughout. I am actually in disbelief as to how it's already been commissioned for 2 other films as part of a new trilogy and am shocked that Cameron gave it his blessing. It doesn't make sense to me, not one bit.Im not gonna spoil anything for anyone, all I can say is don't go see it. Wait until its released on DVD or whatever else because you're missing nothing on the big screen and all you are doing is giving money to something that deserves to be forgotten. I don't usually write reviews on IMDb, this is my first I think, at least my first in living memory but I was so outraged by what I've just witnessed that I had to warn you whoever reads this, save you money and 2 plus hours on anything else. 1 star is all its getting and thats only because I cant give lower.
__label__1 None of the Terminator films are so bad than the new Terminator: Genisys film is.I really had a high hopes for this movie that it will beat and redeem the third movie sadly it didn't. This movie really disappointed me. They made this movie that T1 and T2 does not exist anymore. T-101 was shot into a heart from a 12.year old school girl. Than in the tunnel T101 awakes him self's and than he is shot to death with a shotgun from Kyle his head get's blown off. In the original Terminator T-101 was shot in the eye from Kyle Reese and he crashed with a police car in the wall and he still lived. In this movie he was killed. T-1000 Asian cop was killed over 20.minutes. Now John Connor is T-3000? A liquid metal now or whatever.Schwarzenegger criticized and bashed Terminator: Salvation with how it sucked. Well Arnold your movie isn't even close better than Salvation is,it is the worst Science Fiction/Action film I have ever seen. And this, is coming from a Terminator fan. I am not buying your movie, this film is not getting even close to my Blu-ray collection! This movie is a disgrace and Arnold you should be ashamed of your self. Not only that, you could apologize for insulting Christian Bale! No wait you want do that. And I don't want to see your new Conan film Arnold! Was this a wannabe comedy or a terminator movie?. Jai Courtney as Kyle Reese was the worst at acting in the movie I have seen. Michael Biehn was so much better actor than Jai Courtney is. Jai Courtney screw up A Good Day to Die Hard (2013) and now he screwed up a Terminator film. John Connor played now from Jason Clarke that dude from Dawn of the Planet of the Apes (2014) it is now some weird combination of human/none/ technology/robot/liquid metal that is so far out there that it is stupid. Yes, stupid. The new Sarah is awful, Emilia Clarke is the worst Sarah, I have ever seen in this movie. Linda Hamilton was so much better she could kick Emilia Clarke's ass. Lena Headey was even more bad ass in the TV series playing Sarah than Emilia portrayed her in this movie. The Terminator now is called Pops not a Terminator or T-800 "POPS"! Now he is a father figure to Sarah. Say What? and competes with Kyle for his "daughter's" approval. He awkwardly smiles a lot and repeats the same punch lines over and over as if we didn't get it the first 6 times. It is border line offensive to average human intelligence. Add to that ridiculous scenes like the helicopter chase towards the end which defies logic and I am ready to question anyone's intelligence who rates this movie as anything above a joke. Some people say "it was a fun summer flick, lighten up and just enjoy it for the action". What action? The crap CGI all over and helicopters from star wars? The T800s looked better in the originals. I wanted to enjoy it and went in with an open mind not expecting much but I wasn't prepared for what I actually witnessed. It was the worst summer flick I have ever seen that has actually insulted me for wanting to watch it. (if that's even possible) It was a joke and a mockery at best. It can't be taken seriously even if you wanted to. It fails at being a terminator movie. It fails at being a "true sequel to T1&T2". It fails at being funny. It fails at having ground breaking CGI. If fails at having a story. It fails at character development. It fails at having good sound effects. The music is TERRIBLE! It even destroys the prequels time lines which I don't care for really if it was good. It has nothing going for it. The Terminator second best favorite Science Fiction/Action classic film in the franchise. I rate 9.5/10.Terminator 2: Judgment Day is the best Epic Sci-Fi Classic Action Movie of all times and one of my favorite best action sci-fi flicks that I love to death. I rate 10/10.Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines was a good decent Action/Sci-Fi flick. It was good acting from Kristanna Loken. The Action, Cgi and fights between Kristanna Loken and Schwarzenegger were awesome. Ending was also good and we finally see Judgement Day. The movie was rated R. I rate 7/10.Terminator: Salvation was good once you got passed Bale's Batman voice. At least it was getting into the future war and heading the right direction after T3. No fancy robots, just cold steel cyborgs with one acceptable twist (Marcus). The T600 was awesome. I rate 7/10.I rate this movie 1/10
