__label__7 Looking into Hindu mythology, when Gods descend to Earth they acquire avatars to make themselves known by human beings. Of the recent years' TV animation series let's look over "Ōban Star-Racers" from Jetix and "The Last Airbender" from Nickelodeon for avatar concept. In Ōban Star-Racers, the Earth had been threatening by antagonist galactic races and human beings were expecting a savior from space who is called the Avatar. On the other hand in the Last Airbender, avatar concept was completely confused with Prophecy. Aang the Avatar was born in the form of human being, which is wrong; because Avatar is a form of a God which has no destiny, no life, no death. Herein James Cameron's Avatar, the concept is truly appropriate to the origins of Hindu mythology: When humankind explores the planet Pandora, they aimed to search for underground resources; so they send an ex-serviceman to the natives in a DNA mapped hybrid body(which seems like one of them) to capture their secrets. Becoming the Avatar of natives by time, the ex-serviceman saves the planet from humankind, turning against his origin. Exploring a new planet, descending on the ground, trying to capture it by blending within natives, but failing to do so... This actually is the same storyline with a Sci-Fi legend: Franklin Schaffner's "Planet of The Apes(1968)". Still keeping its sense with having the most terrifying ending of all science fiction works ever created, Planet of The Apes has so many things in common with Avatar. The Apes and the Na'vis both seemed atrocious and uncivilized at first. Then we realized that they're in fact very cuddly creatures. Both Charlton Heston and Sam Worthington became beloved with a female native, and we're introduced to their untouched and God's gift virgin nature. Then as in Star Wars and Abyss, humankind declares war against the natives to capture their lands and resources. Another unique similarity between Planet of the Apes is that humankind is the evil-side again. So the same message we get with a deeper self-criticism is that humankind is the one who destroys the nature and is responsible of all wars. Wasn't this the Terminator's message as well, spoken out by Sarah Connor? "It's in our nature to destroy ourselves". All to the good, we didn't lose our World to apes or cyborgs this time.
__label__7 You put your glasses on and you're in. A feast for the eyes at least for the first hour. The brain, however, remains asleep. How strange that such an ambitious enterprise could ignore its most important aspect, the story. A rehash of other things with dialogues from a high school play. Also, very self referential. The bitch! from Aliens truly omnipresent. I was surprised Sam Worthington didn't say "I think I've seen an iceberg" or maybe he did say it while I conceded myself a little nap - after the second hour - So here we are, facing a film future in 3D" I will, still, long for characters in movies, people I can, not just relate, but be inspired by, thought provoking and all the rest that goes with it. So, Cameron did it again and if money is at the center of the world, he remains "king of the world"
__label__7 This is my first comment on IMDb. The reason I'm writing this is because I just finished reading a bunch of reviews by people giving this a single star claiming that this movie is terrible and boring. Okay, everyone has their own opinion, but seriously?? Never in my life have I gone to a theater 6 times for a single movie. It is visually outstanding. Cameron just puts you in the heart of Pandora as you are literally living there. The use of 3D just adds magic to the experience; you don't need the typical objects popping in your face to enjoy 3D. Every single detail in this epic is amazing down from the tiny flying insects to the giant flying creatures. Music is breathtaking, gives you a rush at many times. I also actually fell in love with Neytiri (Zoe Saldana) as she is without doubt "man of the match". Unfortunately Mr. Cameron has ruined it for me, I went to see Sherlock Holmes, good movie BTW, but I just didn't know how to enjoy it. OK, the acting wasn't top-notch; a lot of cheesy lines and of course an unoriginal storyline. But hey, this is sci-fi/ fantasy film. It's supposed to be action packed and visually stunning. That's the point. Go watch the movie as a very entertaining theatrical 3D experience and don't try to look for plot holes and character development. CGI: never witnessed before, STORY: old, but never before told like this, MUSIC: perfect, JAMES CAMERON: fantastic job. With out a doubt, 10/10. Definitely in my top list along with "The Last Samurai" - imagine that.
__label__7 Well, after all the hype - and a chance to see this for free on a Blu-Ray disc - it was an offer I couldn't refuse. In the end, and even though it's a long film (2 hrs, 40 minutes) I watched it all and wasn't surprised at much of anything story-wise. Like a lot of modern-day action films, they start off great but slowly become unraveled and during the last third of movie, you have to totally "check your brains at the door," but this movie, overall, was fun to watch.For much of it, there were enough visual wonders in here, fantastic colors and special-effects to make up for Director/writer James Cameron's usual Liberal political bias and stereotypical characters. In many respects, you've seen this story before a number of times. In fact, if you've seen "Dances With Wolves," you've seen "Avatar," the main difference being the setting: instead of the Old West you have a futuristic planet. The story is basically the same, the one filmmakers love to present: the evil white military-like corporation men invade the peaceful natives for greed and profit.... and troubles ensue. Throw in the "mixed" romance you saw in "Dances With Wolves" and you have a good chunk of this story. Very little has changed except for the futuristic eye candy. Instead of the American Indian, we have the "Na'vi," which are portrayed in a very similar light except for the blue skin, of course.The only creativity in this film is in the special-effects department, but - wow - what creativity! The visuals are the attraction to this movie, pure and simple. The amazing jungle scenery, bizarre bird creatures and illuminating small objects everywhere will dazzle you, especially played through a Blu-Ray disc and big HD set. The transfer is as sharp as any you'll see.
__label__7 AWE was a decent close to the trilogy (although they did leave it open for the possibility of a 4th).Lets go down the list: 1) Holy cow. The CGI is breathtaking. The details on the sets is just as breathtaking. The filming sites were beautiful. These are a talented group of folks I tell ya. GREAT job.2) Acting .. both good and bad. Sparrow, Barbossa, Beckett, Norrington, Jones, and Gibbs provided some very good acting and funny moments. However, they were offset by Pintel and Ragetti (they got annoying in the 2nd film and it didn't stop here. While I enjoyed the idea of Tia Dalma's character, I wasn't impressed with the performance by beautiful Miss Harris. I haven't especially liked Keira all that much in other things she has done and it was the same here. Decent actress but not overly impressive. Stellan's portrayal of Bill Turner was decent enough but a notch down from what we KNOW he can do. Now the best for last. Im a 100% hetero male and even I can say that Orlando Bloom is a VERY good looking guy. But for the love of pete, this guy is one of the most terrible actors ever and strangely, he was cast in two of the biggest, most profitable trilogies ever. He has essentially played the same character in every movie, just with different costumes. His mannerisms, his low "sexy" voice, his facial expressions .. ALLLL the same, all the time. Sooo blahhhhhhh.3) The story was good but there was too much of it. It has been said here but I will say it again. At one point, I just stopped trying to follow along and just enjoyed it. Everyone stabbed everyone else in the back at least once. It wasn't "hard to follow" but a movie like this isn't supposed to make you think. You want that, go see .... Clue :P the whole Singapore thing was just unneeded. While it did add a new element to the film, it just seemed too forced.4) Running time was a tad bit long but it passed fairly quickly due to the great action sequences.All in all .. I was impressed with the movie, but it has its problems. Much like part 2.I say go and see it. You wont be disappointed but you wont walk out thinking you just saw a masterpiece either.Just my thoughts ...
__label__7 Less than a year after the previous installment of the popular pirates trilogy, Jack Sparrow and company return in Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End. The film should be great, given a three hundred million dollar budget, huge anticipation, and the closure a third installment inevitably brings to a series. While this film does show its budget and is quite visually arresting, it lacks a fair share of resolution to the trilogy and confuses with its overflowing exposition rather than purely existing to entertain.Even in an action packed pirate movie, overly chatty sequences will simply bore audiences just because it's too hard to follow what exactly is being said. The movie really just had too many vague or unnecessary plot points that didn't affect the main plot at hand.All the acting was perfectly fine, with Johnny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow and Geoffrey Rush as Captain Barbosa unsurprisingly being the standouts. The introduction of Depp's character in the pirate equivalent of Hell called Davy Jones' Locker is a particular favorite, as well as the scenes at World's End, which somehow involves a giant, deep waterfall. Keith Richards' hyped cameo as Jack's father is nothing to go crazy for, he does a decent job, but his screen time lasts only about two minutes.Director Gore Verbinski and his crew knew going into this that the reviews would be mixed and the plot would be confusing (in order to encourage repeat viewings), but honestly, at nearly three hours, the more the film confuses you the more it becomes an endurance test. Also, rather than providing a satisfying conclusion to the series, the end opens up the possibility for a fourth installment, which might not even happen. The crew put every penny of the film's budget on screen, made evident in the hour or so of its bloated climax. The film looks and feels like a true epic, shots are wide, locations are vast, costumes are extravagant, and the scope is large. However, the film needs to scale down its plot in order to let the characters we fell in love with stand out and shine, as that's what makes these films unique.
__label__7 I liked POTC: At World's End very much. Let me explain to you why:I liked the scenario. The first time I saw the movie it didn't seem right, and I felt that it was made up to cover plot holes. I though that Will taking Davy Jones's place on the ship was just a petty excuse for a plot twist, and most of the stuff that happened seemed pointless. But I went to see it again, just to give it a second chance. In the end it seemed to me that the scenario was logical. You can finally understand why Tia Dalma brought Barbossa back to life and helped him find Jack. It was all because of the fact that she wanted to come out of her human bonds. Also, Davy Jones's death can be explained. First of all, if he hadn't died, Will would have died instead. Secondly, if he hadn't died, Tia Dalma would have probably killed him, since she was so angry with him for imprisoning her to her human body. After dying and falling in the whirlpool, it was like he was falling in the arms of Calypso, since she was what made the whirlpool. But it is a tragic irony that Davy Jones did not know that Tia Dalma was mad at him. So, after Jack gave his sword to Will to stub the heart, Will should take his place on the ship. So Elizabeth stayed with Will, or at least with nobody other in her heart but Will. I believe all the above was a smart way to end every love story. Everyone was finally where he or she would be happier, sort of. But the true ending of the story was really the last scene. The scene where Jack is on the port of Tortuga, once again marooned by his crew and Barbossa. Gibbs is not among those that betrayed him, just like it happened in the first movie. Also, Barbossa is after some treasure that gives eternal life, but Jack knows the only way to help him find it, since he stole the map. Just like it happened in the first movie, when only Jack knew that it was William's blood they needed, not Elizabeth's. Jack and Gibbs repeated that line they said at the first movie ("Take what you can Give nothing back"). Also, I think that the way the movie ended (with Jack humming the song he was humming at the end of the first movie) was a great way the writers came up with to tell you "Know what? This is not the end. It is the end of the on-screen trilogy, but not the end of the lives of the characters. It's just another beginning". And, one last element that made this movie the best way to end the trilogy is the filling that it gives you. It's the feeling that Captain Jack is always going to run after his precious Pearl, never quite being the captain for a long time. But, come on! You can't expect this movie to be like the first POTC movie, especially since Pirates 2 seemed to be selling more Hollywood than pirates. If you don't want to like it, it's your right to do so. I am just suggesting that you give the movie a chance to impress you. I did give it a chance and you know what? I loved it. Sorry if I made you have a headache with all that I said about Pirates. I just think that it is a misunderstood movie.
__label__7 Once you start downhill, it's difficult to halt the momentum. So to apply this metaphor to the world of cinema, once a film franchise delivers a poor entry, it's almost impossible to not deliver poor ones from then on out. So, imagine the surprise when, after the lackluster Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest, that screenwriters Ted Elliot and Terry Rossio and director Gore Verbinski are able to deliver a superior third entry in the Pirates series with Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End. It is hardly perfect, still far too long and lacking in emotional depth, but for a summer spectacle, it still manages to deliver the goods to a degree.At World's End opens not long after Dead Man's Chest, with Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) and Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightly) joining forces with recently resurrected Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush) to rescue Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) from Davy Jones' locker, where he was dragged to by the Kraken at the conclusion of the last film. While they are on their way to the afterlife, Lord Cutler Beckett (Tom Hollander), has exerted his influence over Davy Jones (Bill Nighy) and is using him to bring the pirates of the world to their knees. With their very existence on the line, the pirate lords meet to discuss the possibility of joining forces to combat Beckett, but since these are pirates, there is a wide variety of skullduggery and backstabbing to be had.Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End is rife with dazzling visuals. As with both previous films, At World's End has spent it's almost-certainly astronomical budget on what actually goes on the screen. The sets, costumes, and stunning visual effects are impressive, to say the least. You might be excused for actually believing that what you are seeing is real at times, not just movie trickery. The make-up artists have also once again proved that they can be the go to guys for the creation of unappealing looking characters, as almost no one in Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End looks like they have taken a bath or brushed their teeth, well, ever, which, in this case, seems to work for the film. If you want to see a visually spectacular motion picture, especially on the big screen, you need look no further than At World's End.On the other hand, if you are interested in depth to go along with the glittery outside, then At World's End will prove to be somewhat lacking, although not nearly as much as Dead Man's Chest. The key problem to this film is that the characters are underdeveloped. Most of what makes them up is played out again without much added to the proceedings from the previous entries: Jack wants everything for himself, Barbossa wants what Jacks wants also, Will wants Elizabeth and Elizabeth wants, seemingly, to be a pirate. Frankly, it's a bit sad that the character with one of the best emotional arcs in the film is one of its villains, Davy Jones, who has an almost touching degree of pathos added to him thanks to a scene about halfway through the film. Perhaps it is the film's never ending attempt to keep the audience uncertain where the various characters loyalties lie that also works against the audiences' identification with almost anyone. When it seems that everyone is out only for themselves, it's hard to work up much enthusiasm for them.The film's cardinal sin, as has been the case with every Pirates entry thus far, is its bloated length. At World's End does not have nearly the lopsided running time to substance ratio that Dead Man's Chest did, but it still overstays it's welcome. Much like fellow summer blockbuster Spider-Man 3, the filmmakers seem to believe that bigger is better, and that is sometimes just not the case. In the film's defense, there is quite of bit of plot to fill the minutes, but it could have still been trimmed back to some degree while maintaining, and perhaps even increasing, the entertainment value.That being said, At World's End still manages a few surprises, and the ending does pay off much of what has gone before, and even though the "love" between Elizabeth and Will seems almost non-existent, a key scene at the end on a beach does manage to be effective. The actors also generally deliver once again. Johnny Depp is entertaining as ever as Jack Sparrow, although he finds the screen time a bit split amongst the various other characters this outing. Depp seems to be having a good time in the role, and it's hard to not understand his public statements that he would be willing to go more rounds as the character. Rush is also effective as Barbossa and Keira Knightley shows a bit more energy than in the last entry, as does Orlando Bloom in the part of Will.So, what began as a seemingly bad idea (a Disney theme park ride turned into a summer film) has concluded three films later with one of biggest displays of blockbuster film-making, in terms of scope, as has been seen in recent years. That the spectacle isn't quite in service of an appropriate amount of core material is disappointing, but Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End is hardly a loss. It provides a decent amount of entertainment, buckets of eye candy and a good laugh here and there. While filmmakers should perhaps aspire to more, what they manage deliver isn't half bad. I suppose that might sound like damning with faint praise, but you just have to call them as you see them.
