__label__8 I had the rather intense privilege to view James Cameron's much anticipated $400 million budget return to the directing scene, Avatar, at the Empire Leicester Square in London.Where to begin! The visuals in this pieces was groundbreaking. He did it with the Terminator series and then Titanic, so one would expect Cameron to deliver... and HE DID! The visual are by far some of the sharpest CGI I have seen. You could almost say that there is a disquiet that follows Cameron's soul, as there is no other possibility of this strong and intensified quality. Its production design and visual effects are both noteworthy and it will get its praise upon official release.What it was lacking that really should have shaped the movie is its character/story. I was expecting a complex and believable plot, but was left with a movie with mostly strong visuals. What most sci-fi lovers desire is mind-bending philosophies, fantasy and exploration and limitations of our or outer species. If it was not for this factor, I would give this a 9.5 vote.Avatar will be a success, not only because of Cameron's legacy, but by very intelligent and viral marketing. Avatar have had a powerful marketing technique that assembles other successful blockbusters, such as The Blair Witch project (you all remember it), The Dark Knight (Joker invades the world) and also, the current production The Artifice (the-artifice.com) that is intelligently targeting the market.Kudos to Cameron, Avatar is one of the (if not The) movie of the year. I could get in trouble for sharing this with you guys so early, so please click Yes on "Was the above comment useful to you?" as a thank you. ;)
__label__8 I am sure my comment will be lost in a sea of blue but anyways here goes...Just attended the Advanced Screening at my local "Event Cinema" BCC in 3DNow this movies graphics are gorgeous, everything is so real, the 3D just adds to the effect beautifully without distracting you.From a technical standpoint this movie is amazing, just the detail on the Navi's faces are amazing, they feel more real then their real life counterparts!Without giving anything away about the story, the plot itself is very solid, very character driven and perfectly executed by Jim, safe to say this is his best original story since "The Terminator" and "Terminator 2" and is definitely one of his best movies, so good it ties with T2 which is my most favorite movie of all time...So for those of you who have not seen this yet... WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?!5/5
__label__8 Well, I'm going to have to give this movie a full rating because it really lived up to my expectations.We have here a science-fiction epic set on an alien world. It's a classic story of a "good-guy" hero who must overcome a battle within himself to do what is right.Although the movie doesn't exactly have the biggest twists, turns, or surprises, it simply sets out to do what movies like "Star Wars" (the ones in the 70s, and 80s, that is) did... to stun us a little with the latest in special FX, give us a classic "Romanesque" story, and enchant us with a very creative world. This movie did what it set out to do, perfectly... and maybe even a little better than perfect.The world is so detailed, and rich. Every animal looks as if it is real... and everything just matches and seems convincing. The "humanoid" race that inhabits this world is very interesting, and the way the world works "together" is amazing. This may be one of the few sci-fi adventure movies where the computer animation actually works in favor of the storyline. Animals and beings do not look like animations. This realism, this pushing of the limits, is what science fiction is all about.But you obviously cannot have just a beautiful movie without no storyline or character to back it up. There is a lot of character in this movie. All of our human characters, the alien race, and the avatars all equally have great character. And the storyline, although nothing extraordinarily original, is chiseled from "classic" storytelling. Good versus evil... doing what is right... all spun neatly together.What a wonderful escape this was! It was dazzling, and even got me thinking a little about what life is really out there on the various billions of stars that make up our galaxy, and the other billions of galaxies out there.And that's what movies like this should do.
__label__8 12 years ago, James Cameron had a vision of Avatar in mind. A vision so ahead of its time that Cameron shelved his project in order to wait for the technology to catch up. A vision so imaginative & exciting that he, finally, went on to create the much needed technology on his own. And the end result was NOT disappointing at all. Avatar takes film-making technology to a whole new level & sets a new standard in 3D viewing. It's a milestone in the history of the art.Avatar tells the story of Jake Sully, a paraplegic marine dispatched to the moon Pandora on a unique mission who becomes torn between following his orders & protecting the world he feels is his home. Avatar is primarily an action-adventure journey of self-discovery, in the context of imperialism & biodiversity. Avatar brings us as close as cinema ever has to actually visiting an alien world. So, watch it in 3D cinemas only if you really want to experience the breathtaking vision of Cameron's world.Director James Cameron has, once again, broken all boundaries & created a visual extravaganza, thus, in the process, announcing his return which just couldn't have been better. From Terminator to Aliens to The Abyss to Terminator 2 to Titanic & now Avatar, the entertainment scope is getting wider & wider with every Cameron's film without compromising at all with the quality. The attention he has given to the detail is superb. Not only Cameron created a whole new world with its flora & fauna of exceptional beauty, he went on to create the culture, race & language of the Na'vi too & their love for their surroundings. They are to Pandora what humans are to Earth. Only difference being our ignorance to our surroundings.Avatar isn't an exceptional movie, overall. When it comes to plot, performances or dialogs, its a disappointment. Those things are no match to Cameron's previous works; Terminator, Aliens, Terminator 2 & even Titanic. The reason behind Avatar breaking every box-office records lies in the beauty of Avatar that's drawing people to theaters again & again. The unforgettable experience in 3D viewing, the dead-end beauty of Pandora, the never-seen-before film-making technology & much satisfying entertainment overall are all responsible for its grand success. It has started the change. It has set things in motion. Cinema is getting revolutionized. Almost every movie is going 3D these days because of Avatar. Still, none have been able to recreate that same magic or experience. That's why, Avatar is way ahead of it's time.Now, let's come to the strong points of Avatar. It lies in its visual effects, editing & cinematography. Editing, like any Cameron movie, is brilliant. The cinematography brings us closer to the beautiful environment, the exotic creatures & incredibly lifelike natives of Pandora. Those who watched it in 3D knows how heartwarming the feeling was to find yourself in the flora & fauna of Pandora. However, the backbone of Avatar is its visual effects. Groundbreaking from scene 1, it's not the surroundings but the details of the surroundings because of which Visual Effects of Avatar reached new heights. World's 2 greatest visual effects studios, ILM & Weta Digital, worked together to produce this gem, and the results are wonderful. The attention in detailing & the magnitude scale of Pandora are sure to leave viewers jaw-dropped. Just the detailing on the face of a Na'vi is enough to tell you about the dedication involved in its making.Technically, Avatar is a breakthrough in film-making technology, 3D viewing & stereoscopic film-making with camera being designed specifically for the movie. If one looks at the story, it isn't that bad too. Of course not the best or even among the best, but still, it has all elements of entertaining the general audience of the world & that's what this movie is doing right now. At least, James Cameron knows how to invest and properly use the massive budget of this movie, unlike Michael Bay(Transformers 1 n 2) or Roland Emmerich(2012, Godzilla etc) who rely only on VFX & nothing else. At least, Avatar scores pretty well above them. It tells a fine story & let VFX n SFX take this movie to new heights.James Horner collaborated with James Cameron for the 3rd time (after Titanic & Aliens) & no doubt, has given a brilliant soundtrack yet again. The score is not as epic as Titanic but is still excellent for a sci-fi film. The score is really beautiful & succeeds in creating the music culture for the alien race. The beauty of the music of Avatar blends well with the beauty of Pandora. James Horner has done a fantastic job.Also, the story or screenplay of Avatar won't make it to the great lists. So, its better you go without expecting a quality plot & screenplay from this movie but a feast for the eyes. And make sure you watch Avatar in 3D for an all new experience. You won't regret it. Missing Avatar would be like missing a turning point in cinema. So be a part of it.10/10 for Avatar's beauty & the wonderful experience I had in theater.
__label__8 The more I think about this movie, the more I like it. This is strange, considering my low expectations. The first film was fun, and I was very happy to see swashbuckling returning to movies, but I never really bought into the script. I wasn't convinced that pirates were some sort of blood-bound "race", and I was powerfully confused by the distance between and physical relationships of various locations. But, still good fun. The second film just kind of made me mad; I loved the ending, but it was just one example of how much it was a standard sequel: every single quirk of the first film was referenced, every single character had to return, and it HAD to be structured - nay, plotted - like Empire Strikes Back. This included re-introducing the Han Solo-Leia love story where the female lead wants the anti-hero, just to appease all the screaming Johnny Depp fans. It begged to be liked, but aside from a great score, great effects, and some very funny moments, it just came off as trite.And then we get At World's End, which has everything you could possibly want in a pirate fantasy film: Legendary ships riddling each other with cannon fire in a whirlpool, screaming buccaneers swinging from one ship to the next, sword-fights on crow's nests, and all that in about fifteen minutes. The rest is an admittedly convoluted story that is much more clearly plotted than the second film, while still taking breaks for letting us spend time with characters we weren't so sure about last time, but are once again fond of. Maybe it's Geoffrey Rush as Barbossa, or the overall simplicity of the plot, but it just worked, and I had a great time.I was legitimately surprised and concerned at what the plot did with our heroes and villains, and was very satisfied with everyone's status in the end. I guess I wouldn't mind seeing another Pirates movie now, but I kind of think everything that needs to be done is in this film.I can't wrap up without mentioning the very nice abstract stuff Verbinksi and co. did with the journey to Davey Jones' Locker. It takes guts to do really surreal stuff with a $300 million Happy Meal blockbuster, but they really did some new, interesting things with their bottomless bag of tricks.A- Curse of the Black Pearl: B+ Dead Man's Chest: B
__label__8 The Pirates of the Caribbean-movie serials is probably one I'll never grow tired off. The characters are fun and great, always adventurous and spectacular to watch. It's really too bad that this time they felt the need to make things even bigger, more complex and conclusive than the previous two movies. Really not needed. In my opinion the first movie "Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl" is still the best because of the reason that it's simple, fun and choices to be purely entertaining. They already went wrong with this approach during the second movie; "Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest", when they put in more new characters and different hard to follow plot lines. "Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End" goes on in the same trend as the previous movie. There are more new characters and as far as the new many plot-lines are concerned...well let me just say that after a while I just gave up trying to understand the movie and just let the movie take me away with its visuals, humor and other entertaining elements. And this movie regardless should really be able to take you away on a roller-coaster-ride of pure entertainment.No doubt in my mind that this movie could had become the best one out of the series. It had all the potential and budget for that, now if they had only cut down about halve of the script...Most of the plot-lines seem redundant and are actually far from believable because they contradict from what happened in the first two movies. The many betrayals among characters and side-picking became really confusing after a while, till it reached a point when you just didn't knew who was fighting for what. But like I said before, after a while you just stop caring about it and simply enjoy the movie for what it brings you. It all is also the reason why the movie is now nearly 3 hours long. Now the movie is not as good and entertaining as the first but maybe just slightly better than the second one, because of the large scale of this movie. The movie is definitely big. There is no lack of action as some people claim there is. There is just as much action as there is in the first two movies, only difference this time is that the movie is nearly 3 hours long and therefor the movie also has some more talking-sequences and slower moments in it.The movie is also big with its musical score by Hans Zimmer and he actually succeeded in composing a new great theme for the movie. In its action moments the movie gets definitely uplifted by its musical score.The action sequences are definitely well constructed and at times pure eye candy. So are the special effects, although I feel that the second movie was still better on that. It seems like they tried to overdo things this time and I'm mainly talking about the end battle, when it comes down to its special effects, by putting in some complex shots. No matter how good CGI is these days, you still see that it's CGI. Most roles get extended in this movie. Marty, Tia Dalma and even Jack the monkey and Cotton's parrot. But of course the movie still remains the Jack Sparrow-show. Really one of the best characters in recent years, all thanks to Johnny Depp, who provide the movie with its biggest laughs and most hilarious absurd moments. He still plays the character as good and fresh as he did for the first time 4 years ago. You can't just ever grow tired of Jack Sparrow. I was also very pleased to see Geoffrey Rush back as Barbossa. His role was bigger which allowed Geoffrey Rush to shine even more. Bill Nighy was also as good as always as Davy Jones. Orlando Bloom's and Keira Knightley's acting also has really improved over the years. I was actually surprised to see how much of the movie Keira Knightley carries this time and how well she does this. Even in the sequences with Geoffrey Rush she does. She also gets to do more interesting in the movie when it comes done to action. In a way she has taken over the Will (Orlando Bloom) role in this movie this time and Will himself gets pushed more to the background this time compared to the first two movies, which really shouldn't bother most people, unless you're a teenage-girl of course. She handles both the action- and comical sequences really well. And even Keith Richards shows up in an already classic cameo as Jack's father. But some role also got narrowed down to my regret, such as Jonathan Pryce's and Jack Davenport's and lets not forget the Kraken.Still, I really wouldn't mind seeing more Pirates of the Caribbean movies in the future, if needed with new actors and characters, as long as Johnny Depp stays as Jack Sparrow. The serials still have more than enough potential and haven't dried up yet.8/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
__label__8 Just finished viewing a private screening of the final chapter of the Pirates of the Caribbean and can confirm it does not disappoint.The original is still the best but 'At World's End' completes the trilogy on a high note.Johnny Depp continues to shine as Captain Jack and Chow Yun Fat makes a huge impact as Captain Sao Feng. Academy Award winner Geoffrey Rush returns as Barbossa and his exclusion from most of the 2nd movie was the reason it was my least favorite out of the whole trilogy. Keira Knightly and Orlando Bloom complete the All-star class and do an OK job as their respective characters.The whole film build up to the final battle which is one of the finest since the Lord of the Rings. If your a Pirates of the Carribbean Fan, this one is not to be missed.8/10
__label__8 On par with Dead Man's Chest, not as good as the first part three still offers a very wild ride. The main problem, I have never had a harder time trying to keep up with so many double crosses and under the table deals as I did in this movie. Everyone had a hidden motive it seemed even Will Turner who in the last movie was just a trusting dupe. I can not believe no one seems to have the problems with this story as they did with Spidey 3 which I found very easy to follow. Add to that the fact that Captain Jack Sparrow, the sole character who made this series is not in it much and you have the disappointment of part two all over again. Granted it was not a huge disappointment, it was a good movie and it was great seeing Geoffrey Rusch back as Barbossa so it did get points for that. The story, this is going to be the hard part, however, I am keeping it as simple as possible. The gang is going in search for Jack, all with differing reasons. Jack is banished to Davey Jones locker and is going a bit crazy. There is a rescue and now there is a pirate meeting to attend, something about a song, a vengeful sea spirit named Calypso and various other obstacles leading to what I have to say is one heck of an action packed conclusion that is packed with great special effects. So there you have it, sure it could use a trimming of the run time as it goes on a while, but it still manages to entertain. I would have liked to see a simpler story though with a bit more comedy as there are some chuckle scenes, just nothing all that super funny like in the first. It was also surprising to see the villain from the last movie Davey Jones play basically a very small role till the very end during the uber action scene. Characters seemingly not all that important in the last film are now somewhat the focal point and you see Keith Richards in a small role as well. So as you can see there is a bit much going on and if there were a sequel to be made I say no Will or Elizabeth, bring back Barbossa, and have Jack Sparrow in it more and keep the plot more lighthearted and simple.
