__label__7 Looking into Hindu mythology, when Gods descend to Earth they acquire avatars to make themselves known by human beings. Of the recent years' TV animation series let's look over "Ōban Star-Racers" from Jetix and "The Last Airbender" from Nickelodeon for avatar concept. In Ōban Star-Racers, the Earth had been threatening by antagonist galactic races and human beings were expecting a savior from space who is called the Avatar. On the other hand in the Last Airbender, avatar concept was completely confused with Prophecy. Aang the Avatar was born in the form of human being, which is wrong; because Avatar is a form of a God which has no destiny, no life, no death.  <NEWLINE> Herein James Cameron's Avatar, the concept is truly appropriate to the origins of Hindu mythology: When humankind explores the planet Pandora, they aimed to search for underground resources; so they send an ex-serviceman to the natives in a DNA mapped hybrid body(which seems like one of them) to capture their secrets. Becoming the Avatar of natives by time, the ex-serviceman saves the planet from humankind, turning against his origin.  <NEWLINE> Exploring a new planet, descending on the ground, trying to capture it by blending within natives, but failing to do so... This actually is the same storyline with a Sci-Fi legend: Franklin Schaffner's "Planet of The Apes(1968)". Still keeping its sense with having the most terrifying ending of all science fiction works ever created, Planet of The Apes has so many things in common with Avatar. The Apes and the Na'vis both seemed atrocious and uncivilized at first. Then we realized that they're in fact very cuddly creatures. Both Charlton Heston and Sam Worthington became beloved with a female native, and we're introduced to their untouched and God's gift virgin nature. Then as in Star Wars and Abyss, humankind declares war against the natives to capture their lands and resources.  <NEWLINE> Another unique similarity between Planet of the Apes is that humankind is the evil-side again. So the same message we get with a deeper self-criticism is that humankind is the one who destroys the nature and is responsible of all wars. Wasn't this the Terminator's message as well, spoken out by Sarah Connor? "It's in our nature to destroy ourselves". All to the good, we didn't lose our World to apes or cyborgs this time.
__label__7 You put your glasses on and you're in. A feast for the eyes at least for the first hour. The brain, however, remains asleep. How strange that such an ambitious enterprise could ignore its most important aspect, the story. A rehash of other things with dialogues from a high school play. Also, very self referential. The bitch! from Aliens truly omnipresent. I was surprised Sam Worthington didn't say "I think I've seen an iceberg" or maybe he did say it while I conceded myself a little nap - after the second hour - So here we are, facing a film future in 3D" I will, still, long for characters in movies, people I can, not just relate, but be inspired by, thought provoking and all the rest that goes with it. So, Cameron did it again and if money is at the center of the world, he remains "king of the world"
__label__7 This is my first comment on IMDb. The reason I'm writing this is because I just finished reading a bunch of reviews by people giving this a single star claiming that this movie is terrible and boring. Okay, everyone has their own opinion, but seriously?? Never in my life have I gone to a theater 6 times for a single movie. It is visually outstanding. Cameron just puts you in the heart of Pandora as you are literally living there. The use of 3D just adds magic to the experience; you don't need the typical objects popping in your face to enjoy 3D. Every single detail in this epic is amazing down from the tiny flying insects to the giant flying creatures. Music is breathtaking, gives you a rush at many times. I also actually fell in love with Neytiri (Zoe Saldana) as she is without doubt "man of the match". Unfortunately Mr. Cameron has ruined it for me, I went to see Sherlock Holmes, good movie BTW, but I just didn't know how to enjoy it. OK, the acting wasn't top-notch; a lot of cheesy lines and of course an unoriginal storyline. But hey, this is sci-fi/ fantasy film. It's supposed to be action packed and visually stunning. That's the point. Go watch the movie as a very entertaining theatrical 3D experience and don't try to look for plot holes and character development. CGI: never witnessed before, STORY: old, but never before told like this, MUSIC: perfect, JAMES CAMERON: fantastic job. With out a doubt, 10/10. Definitely in my top list along with "The Last Samurai" - imagine that.
__label__7 Well, after all the hype - and a chance to see this for free on a Blu-Ray disc - it was an offer I couldn't refuse. In the end, and even though it's a long film (2 hrs, 40 minutes) I watched it all and wasn't surprised at much of anything story-wise. Like a lot of modern-day action films, they start off great but slowly become unraveled and during the last third of movie, you have to totally "check your brains at the door," but this movie, overall, was fun to watch. <NEWLINE> For much of it, there were enough visual wonders in here, fantastic colors and special-effects to make up for Director/writer James Cameron's usual Liberal political bias and stereotypical characters. In many respects, you've seen this story before a number of times. In fact, if you've seen "Dances With Wolves," you've seen "Avatar," the main difference being the setting: instead of the Old West you have a futuristic planet. The story is basically the same, the one filmmakers love to present: the evil white military-like corporation men invade the peaceful natives for greed and profit.... and troubles ensue. Throw in the "mixed" romance you saw in "Dances With Wolves" and you have a good chunk of this story. Very little has changed except for the futuristic eye candy. Instead of the American Indian, we have the "Na'vi," which are portrayed in a very similar light except for the blue skin, of course. <NEWLINE> The only creativity in this film is in the special-effects department, but - wow - what creativity! The visuals are the attraction to this movie, pure and simple. The amazing jungle scenery, bizarre bird creatures and illuminating small objects everywhere will dazzle you, especially played through a Blu-Ray disc and big HD set. The transfer is as sharp as any you'll see.
