__label__4 I simply cannot believe how over-zealous the users of this site are. Actually i can. It was exactly the same for There Will be Blood and every other hyped film there has been recently. Some of the adjectives used to describe Avatar beggar belief: 'The Best Movie of All Time' 'A Masterpiece' 'Mesmorising, Spellbinding, Extraordinary!'. I really do wish i could agree. I was looking forward to this as much as most and i'm a huge fan of Cameron's previous work.  <NEWLINE> Avatar, however, is a massive disappointment, and i'm convinced once the hype surrounding the technology and CGI dies down people will realise that. It really is a reflection of the times that people can be so suckered in by fancy visuals and things blowing up. Please, for a moment, look at the merits of this film, CGI aside, and you'll see that they are pretty much on par with a hundred previous sci-fi b-movies/TV-series. The story is completely derivative, the action unrealistic, the dialogue.....oh God, don't get me started. James Cameron has obviously been spending far too much time with George Lucas. The dialogue is atrocious and painfully clichéd. There is no convincing character development at all. I can barely remember any of their names let alone have any sort of affinity with them. Sam Worthington is a waste of space. I don't know what this Hollywood fixation is with him, but he was terrible in Terminator Salvation and he is terrible in this. The cartoon, morally-vacant human 'baddies' are an insult to intelligence and unbelievable at every turn. The entire plot is 100% predictable. Of course we knew the humans weren't go to win. Of course not. Not with their space-travelling, cryo-genetic-using, high-tech weaponary-toting mentality. They didn't understand the forest, man. Please. This is almost as laughable as Return of the Jedi. And the lame efforts to instill some sort of sentimentality and moral message through the use of poorly-written pseudo-spiritual crap just made me cringe. I wasn't even that impressed with the character design. Cameron has basically taken Native American Indians and Antipodean Aborigines and turned them blue. They have similar attire, ride 'horses', shoot arrows etc etc. It was just all too familiar. <NEWLINE> Avatar may well be a technological breakthrough, and i look forward to others who take the technology on and remember to actually pair it with an original and compelling story, but for now though, this film is a bulging case of style over substance if ever there has been one. <NEWLINE> I miss Aliens. Now that was a convincing movie. <NEWLINE> 4/10
__label__4 Yes, the special effects were impressive - but they just went on too long. The first segment, where she was teaching him about Pandora, had some magnificent effects, but I really did not need 20 minutes to get the point. Then, the first "war" although horrible enough in its unreasonable ferocity of modern war power against the natives with only arrows and spears was followed up with another one, even more horrible, purely for the sake of the special effects. I was holding my ears and closing my eyes, the mass destruction of these wonderful people was all too close to the American destruction of the native American Indians, with all its destructiveness. There was no character development, the acting was so simplistic, the plot formulaic, the dialog trite and simple. <NEWLINE> I wanted to like this film, but was ready to leave about half way though - and if Cameron had held to a disciplined directing mode it would only have been half as long and a much better picture.
__label__4 The only thing this movie did for me was make me soooo bored I actually started remembering the plot of FernGully. Which I hadn't seen in like 18 years. I couldn't even remember its name. When I arrived home I furiously searched the internet for this mystery movie that I had forgotten and that Avatar somehow reminded me of. <NEWLINE> Then I found it and realized that it's exactly the same plot, except that it's a movie for children - which incidentally AVATAR also is, it's just that it cost 500$ billion, or whatever, to make so they had to pretend like it was for adults, but it really isn't. It's a kid's movie, and a 2 hours too long one at that. <NEWLINE> Frankly, what surprised me most about it was that it gets such good reviews... from almost everyone. I'm going to sit and wonder why for a while.
__label__4 ---May contain spoilers--- OK, so here we have Avatar, the most monstrously-hyped, obscenely expensive and ultimately biggest let down of a film in history. <NEWLINE> I'm not gonna lie, I was completely blown away by the fantastic visuals and thought. The CGI and special effects are breathtaking...I accept. However, this film just fails to deliver on so many levels. I would like to think of myself as one of the few individuals that saw this movie who was not blind to the glaring limitations thanks to being absorbed into the aesthetically pleasing elements of this film. NO THANKS! <NEWLINE> I am well aware that there are numerous reviews on the site that equal disaffection to the movie as I do but I had to chip in with my two pence because the fact that this film as become the highest grossing film of all time worldwide is not at all surprising but is utterly disgusting.  <NEWLINE> The staggering global revenue of this film doesn't mean anything. What do you expect when you have a film twelve years after James Cameron's last cash cow of a film, Titanic, that swept the Oscars and generated obscene amounts of money? I suppose we can thank James Cameron for taking almost $300 million and producing a cinematic experience that is so vastly inferior to The Lord of The Rings and Star Wars in terms of imaginative scope. Thumbs up Cameron! I have to admit that the film had stacks of potential after the first half an hour. Sam Worthington, who played Jake Sully, an ex-marine who is sent to the world of Avatar as a one of the locals, falls in love, has to gain the approval of her father. I don't think we have ever seen these concepts in a film before. Oh wait...yes we have. The film, however, transcends shamelessly into a catastrophic blend of CGI-fuelled emotional emptiness and mediocre acting, excluding Stephen Lang, I liked him. The films ending is laughable! Truly pathetic. I cant remember ever being so bored watching a series of mindless explosions and gunfire in an imaginary world. Well done Cameron. <NEWLINE> So there you go, Avatar, an unbelievable visual extravaganza that fails miserably in every other aspect that film can. I will be extremely disappointed if Cameron pips his ex-spouse Kathryn Bigelow for the Best Director and Best Picture awards at the Oscars, not that the Oscars get many things right. <NEWLINE> Oh yeah! Almost forgot, the Avatar's live in a huge tree! Brilliantly inventive and exciting...oh wait on second thoughts, not so much. Calling Avatar a masterpiece and a breakthrough in cinema is bordering on unforgivable.  <NEWLINE> 2/10 A point for the visuals and a point for the film actually being made.
