__label__6 Let me preface this by saying I am a huge James Cameron fan. I think "Terminator" is a masterpiece of sci-fi and the single best edited film of all time, "Aliens" is easily the best sequel not from the original director and I personally like it a lot more than the original. "Abyss" created an interesting world and was racked with tension, "Terminator 2" is an action tour-de-force and has what I believe the best sound editing/design of all time, "True Lies" is goofy fun, more poignant than most give it credit for with a boffo ending, and finally "Titanic" was far better than anyone expected it to be and has one of the most believable romances in a movie.So then there was the 12 year wait for "Avatar". No reviews, word of mouth, ticket price or natural disaster would keep me from the midnight IMAX 3D screening. I went with moderate expectations, which the film matched exactly. While this kept me from being disappointed it wasn't a good thing.Movie fans were on edge because if "Avatar" flops, it'll mean the death of creativity in a remake-happy Hollywood. That's a valid concern but the problem is nothing in "Avatar" is creative whatsoever. It is literally "Dances with Wolves" in space, right down to having a "Wind in his Hair" character as a foil to the "new guy".As the movie progressed it caused the worst of all bad reactions for me as a viewer - I started thinking about other things. Then I kept thinking "well the end battle is supposed to be awesome".SPOILER WARNING! (if for some reason you can't guess how this movie ends) End battle comes and the movie switches from being "Dances with Wolves" to Disney's "Atlantis" (but that's unfair since both of those movies contained far, FAR better musical scores) Gunship windows that were impervious to arrows a few scenes ago (to show Na'vi desperation) suddenly become brittle and break easily (to show Na'vi heroism). The battle isn't nearly as long as you'd expect, and nowhere near as epic / engaging as the finale of Return of the King. Finally there's a Robo-suit vs Navi fight and it is admittedly pretty good. Unlike 95% of directors these days Cameron knows enough to pull the camera back and let us SEE the fight. However it's an odd choice to spend millions on 10 foot tall "creatures" and then rarely even have them in the same frame as humans.And of course there's the obligatory scene where characters are dying in slow motion as Middle Eastern vocal music plays (see Gladiator or Munich) Wouldn't have been so bad if I hadn't said to my friend on the way there "How much you wanna bet there's a part where characters die in slow motion over Middle Eastern music?"As with most movies these days "Avatar" is far too long, glossing over important details (why is Earth dying, what does Unobtainium do, etc) and instead spending time on flight scenes, mystic ceremonies, spirit trees and nature bonding.Ultimately I just did not care. Since the dawn of cinema Hollywood recycles old ideas every few decades and slaps on a bigger budget / new stars / better effects so you won't notice. I can see re-doing "Ben Hur" with color and sound, but why do we need "Dances with Wolves" with 20 times the budget and blue Native Americans? No amount of impressive visuals, robo-suits, gunship battles, perfect character CGI or Sigorney Weaver can change the fact that I've seen this movie 100 times before. I could even accept the weak story if there were any characters to give a rat's ass about. This film is also dreadfully humorless, a stark contrast to "Titanic" where humor was one of its many surprises.Regarding 3D... I've seen many films in it now and honestly you don't even notice after the few minutes. It doesn't make the money any better or worse, just more expensive.Citizen Kane, The Robe, Sound of Music, Jaws, Star Wars, Batman, Toy Story, The Matrix... these movies changed movies. We can say that looking back now. "Avatar" saying it would ahead of time is pure hubris, "unsinkable Titanic"-like poppycock.But if expensive motion-capture being used to cover up a weak, generic story is the future of cinema then count me out, I'll stick with my PS3.
__label__6 First of all, let me get it out of the way: yes, Avatar is visually stunning. With better scenario and dialogs, it could have been a very good movie; alas, it was completely predictable, and fancy special effects alone do not make a good movie.Let's start with the picture. As I said before, the special effects and computer animation are really good; the textures feel very real, and the degrees of liberty that CGI animation allows in terms of camera angles and movement is well used for dramatic effects. The luxurious vegetation of the forest and the CGI-animated wild animals are a treat to the eyes. In terms of artwork, there is a definite influence from Nausicaa (the forest-world, the spores) and Starcraft (the vessels, the goliaths). I saw the movie in an IMAX movie with 3D glasses, but I am not convinced that they used the full potential of it - quite honestly, the Haribo commercial before the movie made a better use of it. I find it more strenuous to watch a movie with the 3D-glasses - some details are blurry, and it feels likewise when the camera makes swift lateral movements.Now, the scenario - the movie disappoints in that area. The plot is very Manichean, and it feels like a remake of Pocahontas, interspersed with elements from / tributes to Star Wars (Pandora and the Na'vi look like Endor and the Ewoks respectively), Nausicaa (the forest as an entity, the destructive impact of civilization on nature, the spores in the forest), Starcraft (Colonel Quarritch and Dr Augustine bear some resemblance with Arcturus Mensk and Sarah Kerrigan), Matrix (the concept of controlling another image of self), and maybe even Independence Day (the pilot fighter suicide) and the Lion King (the father's death, "go, and never come back!", ... am I going to far here?). But I can honestly say that I haven't been surprised at any point in the movie. You know from the beginning that he will be accepted by the Na'vi, that he will fall in love, that he will defect, that he will ultimately prevail after suffering some heavy casualties, and that he will find a way to permanently transfer his mind into the body of his avatar.It would have been interesting if the movie had dealt in more depth with the issues related to transferring one's mind into another body for instance, maybe a la Twelve Monkeys Army, where the "hero" is clearly deeply affected by experiences that the mind is not used to deal with (time travel in that case, but it is not that different from what we have here). Likewise, the love interest of our hero seems very indifferent to the fact that he really is a human remotely controlling a human - Na'vi bastard. I was expecting someone (him, her, or even one of the other humans in the scientific group) to show at least some kind of surprise / doubt when these feelings emerge. I was expecting more complexity in the social interactions of the characters, and their personality.I also take issues with some big stereotypes: corporations and the white men are greedy, indigenous people are pure, brave, and connected to the earth, but dumb - thankfully there is a human to teach them how to fight those who come from the sky. To some extent, the movie feels like a remake of the colonization of the Americas; just replace the Na'vis by native Americans, the aircrafts by ships, and modern weapons by muskets, and you have it. Except of course the colonization of the Americas did not have such a happy ending for the native tribes.On the whole, the movie is beautiful, but it feels like the main goal was to showcase fancy special effects. The movie would have benefited from more detailed characters, and a less linear and predictable plot. My rating is 6/10.
__label__6 "Avatar" is not the next "Star Wars" or "Lord of the Rings." It might be the next "Matrix," though. Or, perhaps more accurate, the next "Matrix Revolutions." It's technically groundbreaking craftmanship put to work on a story that was played out after "Return of the King." There are a lot of bad guys, a lot of good guys, and sooner or later they're all gonna meet on the battlefield. The little details are not-so-shockingly unimportant, since nothing could stop, change or even, really, comment on the unstoppable trajectory of this film's story.It's the future. An Evil Corporation is parked on distant planet Pandora, mining the planet of all its precious minerals. The native population, big blue humanoids called the "Na'vi," aren't too happy about this. The corporation has hired scientists to create avatars of Na'vi bodies to be controlled by human brains, in order to communicate to the Na'vi that...they better move, lest be bulldozed by the evil Col. Qautrich (Stephen Lang).Jake Sully (Sam Worthington) is flown in to Pandora because his twin brother, who had an Avatar made specifically for him, is dead. The coincidence is an obvious plot device so that we can have a newcomer to Pandora to share in our amazement. Oh, and he's paralyzed, so running around in his new alien body is rather freeing for him.I don't feel as if I need to continue with the plot description. You know what'll happen. You've seen "Dances with Wolves" and "The Last Samurai." Heck, even "Dead Man." The Na'vi represent nature, the (all-American) corporation represents destructive technology. Quatrich has a Southern accent and says things like, "we have to fight terror with terror." The Na'vi are clones of Native Americans - filtered through the imagination of a white liberal. It's all very obvious.The question, of course, is whether or not it's entertaining. Well...sometimes. It certainly looks good. Some sequences - especially those with the winged beasts - are eye-popping. Lang makes a fun villain. Pandora is more derivative than original, it reminded me most of Skull Island in Peter Jackson's King Kong. All the monsters have a plastic-y look to them that make them feel too well-done. The 3D is distracting at times and I had a headache before the movie was over.But there are scenes and individual shots that pop with ethereal beauty. It's worth seeing for that reason, but I don't think it'll be as fun after multiple viewings. The great thing about "Star Wars" was the characters: Han Solo, Luke Skywalker, Princess Leia, R2-D2, Darth Vader, Obi-Wan Kenobi, Yoda and so on. They embodied the other-worldliness of the story, taking the weight off the effects.In thirty-two years, I don't think anyone will remember "Jake Sully." 6/10
__label__6 Yeah this movie took several steps forward in terms of cinematography and filming technology, but that is all that can really be said to be what makes this film worth seeing. Everything else that makes a film great is totally lack luster.There is no deep character development. Why does Jake Sully really want to become a part of the Navi? What was life on Earth like? What really makes him want to break away from his roots there? Is it just the ability to walk? I mean are there no more Native Americans or Buddhists left on Earth (which is clearly who the Navi were based off of) to give him that spiritual satisfaction? How does he feel about filling his brother's shoes? Twin relationship? The conflict between scientists and the military is not developed. Every supporting character was a stock character. Michelle Rodriguez somehow manages to have a place in Hollywood after literally playing the same type of character in every film she is in (Fast and the Furious, SWAT, Blue Crush...yeah just put her in a futuristic helicopter and thats her in this one). Was Sigourney Weaver supposed to be a mother figure? How did the bad guy from the Last of the Mohicans feel about faking a Native American language? The plot was totally predictable, and the dialogue was crap. It was like James Cameron turned in his dialogue assignment a day late.This movie deserves no award nominations at all outside of those in technical categories.
__label__6 The good and bad of this third - and perhaps last - of the "Pirates of the Caribbean' story:It's not easy to keep people entertained these days for almost three straight hours, and the film-makers accomplished two-thirds of that. I might have ranked this higher, but it's too long at 169 minutes (almost three hours) .....way too long. Two hours would have been more than enough for this fantasy-adventure film. After that, I found myself getting bored with too much action and much of the same things I had already seen for two hours.What I really appreciated in this movie was all the humor. I expected decent special-effects and diverse characters. There are a number of good laughs in here and they are provided by a variety of people, not just Johnny Depp as "Capt. Jack Sparrow." Even the parrot gets several laughs in here.Since the entire cast was still intact, I was more interested in seeing some new faces and I really enjoyed Chow Yun-Fat whose major contributions came in the beginning of the film. Why he basically left after the opening part, I don't know, and the movie suffered for it. Mostly the film features a bunch of familiar people, none of whom we can predict what they'll do next. One minute they are good guys; the next minute, the bad guys. Unfortunately, that makes the story confusing in parts. So - if you got lost a few times, don't feel bad. It's understandable.The only character who rubbed me the wrong way was the too politically-correct and almost insulting role of "Elizabeth Swann," played by Keira Knightley. Why do filmmakers insist on giving us the pretty girls-who-beat up-all-the-men roles? It's so stupid. Overnight she becomes a super-skilled swordsman? Please, movie makers: stop giving us Rambo with makeup and cleavage! Let women be women and men be men!Also, I wanted a high seas pirate adventure story, not some voodoo theology mumbo-jumbo, which took up too much of this story. What was this: Pirates of the Caribbean or Harry Potter? At times, it resembled more of the latter.Geoffrey Rush as "Captain Barbossa" was the most interesting person in the film, in my opinion. He was terrific in every scene. Depp is always good, but I missed hearing him say, "Savvy?" He didn't say it once!Overall, fun but overdone. Savvy?
__label__6 I liked this movie a little bit more than the 2nd one, "Dead Man's Chest". The plot was a bit confusing at times, and they tried to cram way too much story into the movie (it's a 2 hr 40 minute movie), but in the end, it was entertaining and fun to watch. The acting from Johnny Depp is good as usual, and the action/CGI sequences are even more breathtaking than the previous 2 movies. They throw in some good laughs throughout the movie, though sometimes the situations are a bit more absurd than they should be (especially near the end). All in all, a good "adventure novel" type movie to watch. If you liked the first 2 movies, you'll like this one. Oh yeah, stay till the end of the credits for a good scene.
__label__6 The last thirty minutes of Pirates of the Caribbean 3 feature plenty of swashbuckling adventure and a few brave surprises. Sadly, what precedes them isn't always as thrilling. Will (Orlando Bloom), Elizabeth (Keira Knightley) and ex-villain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush) attempt to locate Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp), while Cutler Beckett (Tom Hollander) controls the Flying Dutchman's captain Davy Jones (Bill Nighy) and his monstrous crew.Within the first two hours there are droll moments, but also a terrifying amount of bloat: lots of scenes should not have made it past the editing room. See, for example, the hallucination with the multiple Jacks, an interminable piece of slapstick which goes on and on. The whole movie needed a good trimming; director Verbinski has many qualities, but brevity isn't one of them. Knightley is a firecracker as usual; Bloom is still a bland actor, but his Will has grown into a darker, more interesting character. The great Bill Nighy brings pathos and a delighted wickedness to the role of Davy Jones. Depp and Rush have fun hamming it up.The Black Pearl is still the best of the trilogy by a (nautical) mile, but this final chapter surpasses the second (which was a bloated mess) and offers enough exciting set-pieces to make it watchable.6/10
__label__6 I would've liked to give this film a higher rating, I can't say that it was disappointing but at the same time I didn't think it was all it could be. Maybe my expectations were too high, maybe I wasn't really in the mood to see it, maybe it was the fact that I finished about a litre of coke 15 minutes in, but I had trouble sitting through some bits of this film. The abstract whiteness of the afterlife (or Jack's afterlife), the strange rocks that turned into crabs, the fact that Calypso's power seemed to be limited to a whirlpool and a bit of rain after all the buildup... just didn't really grab me. I think it was just an excuse for some fancy special effects. It was overly long, and the ending was predictable too.Marks for the acting, Depp and Rush are fantastic, and the last half hour is fun to say the least, but for me it didn't have the charm and the character of the first film.
