__label__4 I simply cannot believe how over-zealous the users of this site are. Actually i can. It was exactly the same for There Will be Blood and every other hyped film there has been recently. Some of the adjectives used to describe Avatar beggar belief: 'The Best Movie of All Time' 'A Masterpiece' 'Mesmorising, Spellbinding, Extraordinary!'. I really do wish i could agree. I was looking forward to this as much as most and i'm a huge fan of Cameron's previous work. Avatar, however, is a massive disappointment, and i'm convinced once the hype surrounding the technology and CGI dies down people will realise that. It really is a reflection of the times that people can be so suckered in by fancy visuals and things blowing up. Please, for a moment, look at the merits of this film, CGI aside, and you'll see that they are pretty much on par with a hundred previous sci-fi b-movies/TV-series. The story is completely derivative, the action unrealistic, the dialogue.....oh God, don't get me started. James Cameron has obviously been spending far too much time with George Lucas. The dialogue is atrocious and painfully clichéd. There is no convincing character development at all. I can barely remember any of their names let alone have any sort of affinity with them. Sam Worthington is a waste of space. I don't know what this Hollywood fixation is with him, but he was terrible in Terminator Salvation and he is terrible in this. The cartoon, morally-vacant human 'baddies' are an insult to intelligence and unbelievable at every turn. The entire plot is 100% predictable. Of course we knew the humans weren't go to win. Of course not. Not with their space-travelling, cryo-genetic-using, high-tech weaponary-toting mentality. They didn't understand the forest, man. Please. This is almost as laughable as Return of the Jedi. And the lame efforts to instill some sort of sentimentality and moral message through the use of poorly-written pseudo-spiritual crap just made me cringe. I wasn't even that impressed with the character design. Cameron has basically taken Native American Indians and Antipodean Aborigines and turned them blue. They have similar attire, ride 'horses', shoot arrows etc etc. It was just all too familiar.Avatar may well be a technological breakthrough, and i look forward to others who take the technology on and remember to actually pair it with an original and compelling story, but for now though, this film is a bulging case of style over substance if ever there has been one.I miss Aliens. Now that was a convincing movie.4/10
__label__4 Yes, the special effects were impressive - but they just went on too long. The first segment, where she was teaching him about Pandora, had some magnificent effects, but I really did not need 20 minutes to get the point. Then, the first "war" although horrible enough in its unreasonable ferocity of modern war power against the natives with only arrows and spears was followed up with another one, even more horrible, purely for the sake of the special effects. I was holding my ears and closing my eyes, the mass destruction of these wonderful people was all too close to the American destruction of the native American Indians, with all its destructiveness. There was no character development, the acting was so simplistic, the plot formulaic, the dialog trite and simple.I wanted to like this film, but was ready to leave about half way though - and if Cameron had held to a disciplined directing mode it would only have been half as long and a much better picture.
__label__4 The only thing this movie did for me was make me soooo bored I actually started remembering the plot of FernGully. Which I hadn't seen in like 18 years. I couldn't even remember its name. When I arrived home I furiously searched the internet for this mystery movie that I had forgotten and that Avatar somehow reminded me of.Then I found it and realized that it's exactly the same plot, except that it's a movie for children - which incidentally AVATAR also is, it's just that it cost 500$ billion, or whatever, to make so they had to pretend like it was for adults, but it really isn't. It's a kid's movie, and a 2 hours too long one at that.Frankly, what surprised me most about it was that it gets such good reviews... from almost everyone. I'm going to sit and wonder why for a while.
__label__4 ---May contain spoilers--- OK, so here we have Avatar, the most monstrously-hyped, obscenely expensive and ultimately biggest let down of a film in history.I'm not gonna lie, I was completely blown away by the fantastic visuals and thought. The CGI and special effects are breathtaking...I accept. However, this film just fails to deliver on so many levels. I would like to think of myself as one of the few individuals that saw this movie who was not blind to the glaring limitations thanks to being absorbed into the aesthetically pleasing elements of this film. NO THANKS!I am well aware that there are numerous reviews on the site that equal disaffection to the movie as I do but I had to chip in with my two pence because the fact that this film as become the highest grossing film of all time worldwide is not at all surprising but is utterly disgusting. The staggering global revenue of this film doesn't mean anything. What do you expect when you have a film twelve years after James Cameron's last cash cow of a film, Titanic, that swept the Oscars and generated obscene amounts of money? I suppose we can thank James Cameron for taking almost $300 million and producing a cinematic experience that is so vastly inferior to The Lord of The Rings and Star Wars in terms of imaginative scope. Thumbs up Cameron! I have to admit that the film had stacks of potential after the first half an hour. Sam Worthington, who played Jake Sully, an ex-marine who is sent to the world of Avatar as a one of the locals, falls in love, has to gain the approval of her father. I don't think we have ever seen these concepts in a film before. Oh wait...yes we have. The film, however, transcends shamelessly into a catastrophic blend of CGI-fuelled emotional emptiness and mediocre acting, excluding Stephen Lang, I liked him. The films ending is laughable! Truly pathetic. I cant remember ever being so bored watching a series of mindless explosions and gunfire in an imaginary world. Well done Cameron.So there you go, Avatar, an unbelievable visual extravaganza that fails miserably in every other aspect that film can. I will be extremely disappointed if Cameron pips his ex-spouse Kathryn Bigelow for the Best Director and Best Picture awards at the Oscars, not that the Oscars get many things right.Oh yeah! Almost forgot, the Avatar's live in a huge tree! Brilliantly inventive and exciting...oh wait on second thoughts, not so much. Calling Avatar a masterpiece and a breakthrough in cinema is bordering on unforgivable. 2/10 A point for the visuals and a point for the film actually being made.
__label__4 It was very disappointing.I adored the first movie to pieces. I own the DVD and regularly play it on movie nights with my friends. It's great unexpected fun, quotable, and a visual spectacle. The characters are surprisingly likable, and Depp comes roaring in like a breath of fresh air as Capt. Jack.The problem with the third movie (as well as the second) is that it lost touch with it's roots. The first movie, while heavy with the supernatural stuff, was still pretty grounded in a fairly accurate real world. The characters were over the top, yes, but still believable, and above all, relatable. Their motives and predicaments all made a great deal of sense (i.e. Elizabeth wanting to marry Will, Barbossa wanting to be free of the curse, Jack simply wanting to get a boat so he could live his life of freedom). Unfortunately, in the new movies, the writers have lost touch with the first movie's charm. The plots are so convoluted it's difficult to decipher, much less remember, a character's desires and motives. It's much less emotionally grounded. It has also become so thick into this supernatural fantasy land that it has hardly any link to the real world at all. This would not have been a problem were the filmmakers not so intent on special effects and visual spectacles that they forgot to tell a good, solid story.I believe this movie would have been better if the writers had kept to a more straightforward plot and toned down much of the "grand spectacle" stuff which really dominated the movies.
__label__4 During the first movie they had an undead pirate crew. During the second movie they topped it with Davy Jones and a mutant fish crew. During the third movie, they had a god that was built up and did absolutely nothing, a crew from Singapore that wasn't cool and quickly faded out of memory, and a wicked evil navel captain that froze up in the heat of battle at the end.There was no conclusion between Davy Jones and Calypso. There wasn't a love scene at all between Jack and Elizabeth, even though it was perfectly set up to have one. The Cracken had a non existent death.There are so many other crappy parts to this script...The first movie was amazing, the second one topped the first, the third one is the biggest pile I have ever seen. It was a massive disappointment.
__label__4 Saw a spanking digital print of Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End last night and I came away puzzled, confused and disappointed. The entire franchise, which was heading for the rocks with middle sequel Dead Man's Chest, has finally sunk to the bottom with this third installment. Firstly, the plot. Well, I'm not entirely sure there was one amongst the crosses, double crosses and triple crosses that pretty much every character inflicts on every other character. Add in occult mystics, a goddess of the sea, a love struck villain (aha motivation! - oh no, it's another double cross), pirate councils, nine pieces of eight (huh?), hundreds of crabs, four lead ships, three separate crews, a wedding, several battles/swordfights and you can't complain that Pirates 3 doesn't offer lot for your entry fee. It's just a shame that it doesn't make any actual sense. The trouble is that every now and again, almost hidden beneath tons of turgid exposition dialogue, bizarre hallucination sequences, and loud, confusing action, lie some real gems of comedy - mostly involving Depp and Kevin McNally. Keith Richards is also excellent, though his scenes are much less fun than they should have been. Geoffrey Rush as Barbossa is still a fun character and the two pirates Mackenzie Crook and Lee Arenberg have much more to do than in the second movie and are a good watch. In virtually every scene is Knightley, who does a good job of developing Elizabeth Swann and actually acts a couple of times, but basically spends her time looking extremely pretty. However Chow Yun Fat, Orlando Bloom and Tom Hollander are bland, dull characters who are paper thin. Biggest crime of the two sequels is the treatment of Jack Davenport's character Norrington, who could have been interesting to watch develop, but was abandoned in favour of Hollander's. Ultimately the characters, the plot, the script and the fun are all overwhelmed by the (admittedly fantastic) CGI. Though Depp pretty much saves every scene he's in, he can't save the full three hours. Pirates 3 has its moments, and at times is really great fun, but it is too long, too confusing, and too dull to be really worth the price of admission - though I suppose a feeling of being robbed could add to the pirate experience. Shame.
__label__4 These movies are silly. It's not a criticism, just a fact. They are silly and goofy and light. They utilize juvenile humour, harebrained gags and far-fetched scenarios and ideas. And the films are completely dripping with clichés and kitsch, especially the third installment. But all these elements – which I would consider glaring flaws in any other film – are forgiven simply because I wouldn't expect anything different from this genre. The key is that the trilogy never takes itself seriously. It basically announced, right off the top from the first film, that it would be a silly, light, wacky, action-packed action-adventure-comedy. So you're actually looking for the silliness, the lame gags, the juvenile humour. This is not a movie I would expect deep character development from, or even basic movie logic. I expect to have a swashbuckling, action-packed, light, entertaining and just plain fun and enjoyable time at the cinema when I see this – nothing more, nothing less.In most fields, At World's End delivers unquestionably. It contains action scenes and set pieces that completely dwarf those in the first two installments. The final showdown is worth the admission price alone. Because of the film's nature and edifice, which may be the loosest and broadest of any film, the creative team can essentially do whatever comes to their tremendously creative minds – in all the fields. Indeed just thinking of and constructing these set pieces requires an immense sense of creativity and a complete disregard of logic or physics.In actuality, the Pirates of the Caribbean films are a dream come true for the creative fields of film-making. Production designers and costume designers essentially have total and utter freedom; because the film is set in a pseudo-fantasy period setting, they basically can design whatever wacky ideas come to mind. Indeed the production and costume design in this film is second to none, completely incomparable and totally unconventional, but looks absolutely fantastic and is wildly creative. The designs of the Singapore city and especially of the Shipwreck Cove construct – entirely made of wrecked ships all stacked and piled up into these massive towers – are astonishing and dazzling. The same can be said of the costume design, which is just fantastic and incredibly imaginative.The film is also a complete masterwork in the technical fields, especially in the special effects sphere. The filmmakers spared no expense and hired the best effects team Industrial Light & Magic had to offer – and the result is more than obvious on screen. The practical and model effects are almost as impressive as the mind-blowing, completely unbelievable CGI work, which just looks completely realistic, absolutely convincing and is integrated perfectly into the actual footage more so than any other movie of this type in recent years. Even Spider-Man 3 had some dodgy and unconvincing CGI work – Sony's mistake was insisting on creating their own effects instead of hiring an external (and more experienced and professional) company to deliver the high-expectation goods. Well, At World's End more than delivers in this department, so much so that the effects that were so mind-blowing in the second installment, Dead Man's Chest (namely the fish-pirates and Davey Jones himself) are almost taken for granted in this film. If you think about it, these creations are nothing short of astonishing, but they're just so convincing and realistic, you don't even think about it. And that is the biggest and primary sign of good CGI work.That said, the film has one glaring flaw that really hampers the entire experience: the script. This is the usual result of starting to shoot a movie without a finished script, but the story just feels and unfolds as if it were made up as they went along, instead of actually planned ahead of time – even more so than Dead Man's Chest, which also suffered from this problem. But At World's End is so confusing and awkward, it makes the plot in Dead Man's Chest seem actually quite logical and clear. The film essentially has one basic story element: the pirates of the world are facing extinction and band together for one final showdown against the armada of the East India Trading Company. The problem is that everything leading up to this showdown is so unbelievably confusing; it's surprising to learn that only two screenwriters worked on the script. I didn't even bother trying to follow after a while, but I'm sure that if I had I would notice glaringly wide plot holes, and that most of the characters' motives have absolutely no continuity whatsoever. For instance – considering the new information we discover about Tia Dalma in At World's End, one begins to wonder why, at the end of Dead Man's Chest, she volunteered to help the gang rescue Jack Sparrow in the first place? Indeed this is a major problem in the film, not only because it's absolutely impossible to follow or understand just what is going on at any given moment, but also because it is so unbelievably easy to create a story that makes sense. They managed to do so in the first film, and I think that a little more ironing on the creases in this screenplay and they could have reached something truly excellent. Because the general concept is great; it's just everything in-between that makes no sense whatsoever.Despite this, the film does have some moments where it truly shines, and one scene in particular involving a certain cameo everyone had been talking about since the first film is worth all the confusion that is the film's plot and the frustration in trying to understand it and organize it in your head. Combine these immaculate scenes with the great set pieces, action sequences and amazing technical and creative work, and one is almost ready to forgive the total travesty that is the script. Almost.
