__label__3 I'm speechless... utterly speechless! This movie has earned how much worldwide - over 1 billion dollars? Why? They say there are only 5 scripts in Hollywood and this surely confirms it. Throughout the entire time I'm thinking Pocahontas and believe it or not - Fern Gully. The visuals are pretty to look at with the forest being the leader. The forest during the day that is... because at night the forest turns into a Disney style show of corny ultraviolet foliage and grass that glows when you step on it (a la the video of Michael Jackson singing Billie Jean). Each animal is obviously based on an earth animal, only they have more legs or extra eyes – apparently this is what passes for imagination these days. And the floating mountains - Miyazaki pulled it off years ago in Laputa:Castle in the Sky, in this film they're just plain out of place. The love story is predictably obvious and boring. And hold off on the popcorn as large portions of dialogue about the back-story are forced down your throat in the most unintelligent and obvious way. As for the culture of the tribe... well it seems to be a mix of almost every stereotypical African and South American tribe, ever... rolled into one big ball of naf unbelievable tripe. In short this movie was really a waste of my time and money. And too paraphrase a review I once heard in relation to another disappointing film in recent years - With a budget $240 million this film really needs to be either a cure for cancer, or bloody entertaining; sadly it fails on both fronts. James Cameron – disappearing for another 12 years would be a true godsend!
__label__3 Confused already? No? Well apparently millions of people weren't either,when they declared this to be one of the best movies they've seen in their lives,and then presumably bought a second and third and fourth cinema ticket to see this.I am not one of those people.I was confused.And amused.And pardon me for saying this,but I had to wake up the latent retard in me to be able to enjoy riding flying dragons,some unidentified horse-like hippo,a Jurassic something and a whole world apparently perfect. Well,that bothers me.Nothing is perfect.Even when you're high,you know that you're going to have a hang-over.Those Navi's were so perfect that it made me suspicious.The movie doesn't show this,but i bet they were into something really nasty,like attacking other tribes and raping all the women.And I bet they had their way with those flying dragons.Yes,I'm talking zoophilia with a dragon.Nevermind connecting neuron pony tales,how about connecting some penis and dragon pussy.Disgusted already? Now you know how I felt when watching Avatar.Oh yes,the CGI was ground-breaking.Let's hope next time Cameron just employs hundreds of Indian and Chinese computer programmers to give us Avatar 2, no actors,no common sense,no plot,just a diluted message and just computer generated Navis being perfect in their perfect world.
__label__3 I did not like Avatar. There, I said it. Criticize me, but this movie was bad. Just bad. <NEWLINE> One of the most predictable stories I've ever seen. Curiosity: I saw this movie with my best friend and usually before the movie starts we discuss how the movie is going to go and how the story will develop. We do that before every movie and many times we get the ending right (maybe not 100% right, but the most important things), but avatar was the first movie where we got everything right. EVERYTHING. We talked for like 20 minutes and got everything right. It was like We went inside Cameron's mind or something, just kidding because even a 10 year old could've guessed 90% of the movie. <NEWLINE> OK. So the graphics were awesome. So what?! Is a movie all about graphics to you? A movie only needs to be visually awesome to have an 8.4 rating?? How low has the movie industry gone? If people stopped thinking about the graphics for 5 minutes and just thought about the supernatural amount of clichés and predictability present in this movie, maybe this movie would have a 6 or 7 rating, but no, most people are like a little kid looking at something shiny and new - the content doesn't matter as long as it's pretty. <NEWLINE> Just one thing, if you didn't see the movie and don't want to hear or be aware of spoilers follow these measures: 1-Don't watch the trailer(it'll give too much away) 2-Don't read the synopsis (it'll give too much away) 3-Don't even think, or you'll figure the whole thing. Believe me. It's that predictable.
__label__3 Have IQ's dropped sharply while I was gone? The overwhelming special effects of Avatar simply cannot hide the vacuousness of its story. As just about anyone who can read has noticed, the plot is a rehash of the "civilised man goes native" fable popularized from "Last of the Mohicans" to the present day (I'm sure even the ancient Egyptians have a version preserved in hieroglyphs somewhere on a dusty temple wall). The CGI is realistic enough that you can become engaged with the digital characters... except, then your attention is focused on the story. Which is almost as lame as a 6th graders summer vacation essay. <NEWLINE> I did not see the movie in 3D as I assumed it would be pointlessly distracting. I have seen polarized 3D movies before. Starting with one of the first, "The Bubble" in the late 60's. The peak of this in-your-face technology was reached years ago in the 70's with the release of "The Stewardesses". Nothing in this movie can compete with real 3D boobs.
