__label__2 I'm giving this movie a 2/10 because undeniably the art and beauty that is the setting of Avatar is outstanding. It's a gorgeous movie but I find it offensive as a movie-goer that we should be expected just to like a movie because the hype and a gorgeous setting.This movie severely lacked plot and character development, especially the latter. The main character had some depth but the supporting cast had very little, and I did not feel at all attached to their causes or goals. The movie was far too long to cover as little as it did, there was more to uncover about the characters, their past, and how they interacted with one another but it was shown through quickly progressing scenes, with little dialogue relying on the score and beauty of the setting to speed us through the time of the movie. Months were shown over the matter of minutes, which would be okay if they had some fully formed characters I could believe in, but that was not the case here.As mentioned in other reviews, the plot originality is severely lacking, I found myself during nearly the entire movie thinking.."oh this is just like that movie" or "that is just like this movie". That's not to say that similar themes are recycled in many modern movies, but this one wasn't even cobbled together convincingly to be its own story, you can see the loose threads of other movies everywhere, only turned into a Avatar themed world. Clichés abound here. This movie is getting way more positive reviews than it deserves probably because of the expert animation/visual effects and the huge hype before hand. It's disappointed to see such a sub-par movie getting such a fabulous reaction from movie-goers, we deserve better. Hype+Stunning Visual Effects does not equal great cinema.
__label__2 Jake Sully (Sam Worthington) is a paraplegic Marine who travels to the world of Pandora to do what he thinks is protecting the Earth. The natives of that world are said to be vicious and cruel. By transforming into one of them in his sleep (or something) he realizes they are NOT the evil ones and he begins to have serious doubts about his mission. This leads to an all out battle at the end.Basically this is cowboys vs. Indians in outer space. This is VERY easy to follow and understand which is the main problem. Everything here is totally and utterly predictable! You've seen these characters and situations all before. I was always one or two steps ahead on the plot and this isn't good for a movie that runs a needless 165 minutes. This could have easily been wrapped up in 90 minutes. Some people find getting into the world of the aliens is fascinating. I wasn't fascinated at all--just thoroughly and utterly bored! To make matters worse the dialogue is on the level of an Archie comic book and the characters are either evil or good--no shades of grey or ambiguity. The movie also preaches it's against war but "entertains" us with an all out battle at the end. Lots of people agree that the plot is light but the incredible special effects make up for it. Not for me! Yeah the special effects are impressive (especially in 3-D) but that isn't enough for such a long movie with a dull storyline. I can't really comment on the acting here considering no one is given a character to play--they're all walking, talking clichés. Only two people stand out--Sam Worthington and Sigourney Weaver. Worthington is very handsome with beautiful eyes and a cute little Australian accent. Weaver is strong and commanding playing a scientist.I will admit the battle at the end was (kind of) fun but I was mostly bored silly throughout this. I kept looking at my watch patiently waiting for this to end. I have to admit I'm in the minority here. It's gotten rave reviews from critics and has already broken box office records. I attended a 4:30 show on a Saturday afternoon--and it was sold out! It's also among the top 50 movies here on IMDb. I guess a lot of people like predictable stories with non-stop special effects and cardboard characters. I need something more than that. The 2 is only for the effects and hot Worthington.
__label__2 Sure, the effects ARE excellent- but what a dreadful waste of effects. Surely, at some point, someone must have pointed out to the powers that be that the film contains nothing new. If a film like this wins any awards for anything except special effects it is, surely, an indictment of the low value we put on original (or even interesting) work. The elements of a wonderful story COULD be there but it seems that the special effects budget was more important than the screen writing budget. Dreadfully disappointed with the film and hope that others see it for "The Emperor's New Clothes" that it is. Come on Hollywood you can do far better than this!
__label__2 I was extremely disappointed with this film. I should have known by the way people talked about the "looks" instead of the plot. Imagine this film without CGI and it probably would be just another Saturday morning cartoon. If they had to use old-school costumes and make-up this thing would have fallen flat.The target audience seemed to be the kids who watch Saturday morning cartoons. The story line would only challenge the brain of a 6 year old.But let's cut straight to the heart of the matter: the CGI. OK, so the computer can create some neat images. Got it. But I find beauty more in the Discovery channel's "Life" and "Planet Earth" then in this movie. For example, the characters walk like those in Sim Life - jerky. The characters were nowhere close to the "alive" imagery of Toy Story.The beasts with the thick-skin were just another mutant thing and the "horses" were blocky and weak. The flying birds were the only exception to nice flow and appearance in my eye.And consider the way the final fight scene showed a robot (think Iron Man) that moved better than a human being can...all by a joystick. The thing weighs tons but moved like a ballerina. Please! When it reached above its head to grab the main character I started laughing...don't tell me the thing has eyes on the top of its head or a brain to operate it. Sad.Scene after scene was met with a furrowed brow. We have Weaver's avatar looking like a poorly animated Tomb Raider. We have Weaver wrapped in green vegetation (when, how and why left unanswered). We have futuristic helicopters (sort of) but old-school wheelchairs.We have a smelly alien somehow getting in good with the planet's inhabitants. And not just fitting in, but moving up the ranks to one of the top leadership position.We have a red bird (the rest are green-blue) that didn't pick him, broke the rule of "only one bird" and I'm not sure that was enough to convince the people that this fainting stranger could now lead 2,000 to victory.We have sleep pods that have a big red button on them, but in the future we obviously can't shut them down any other way. We have helicopters that can leave a military installation (with big doors) without resistance and without any pursuit.We have a big tree as the home that is destroyed and THEN we discover other clans exist and don't live in trees. Do they hook up their ponytails to the water, grass, or clouds? The race comes across as passive since they sat around and waited to be over-ran, yet every scene of the daughter's suitor indicated warriors. At the beginning they were feared for their size and poisoned arrows, but by the end the wooden sticks were laughed at. Which is it? Seriously, this was a cartoon. And had I sat down one Saturday morning to watch it with my nephews I would have wondered when it was going to end. Yuck.
__label__2 I've been reading the reviews and seeing rows upon rows of 10 star out of 10 ratings and I just don't understand. Haven't all these people watched the same movie as me? Then, every 15 reviews, there's one review giving the movie 1 or 2 stars which I completely agree with.This movie was absolutely terrible! It started out somewhat promising with some really cool scenes and an actual story where Barbosa and friends are sailing off the "end of the world" to go rescue Jack Sparrow. Then the story shifted gears and went all psychedelic-like with Jack hallucinating and talking to himself and 15 other himselves and crabs made from rocks which transport boats across the sand into the ocean and the shipwreck of 3 crews worth of people on the exact spot at the exact time on the exact beach where Jack Sparrow's boat is dropped in the water by the horde of crabs. And that was the good part of the movie.The rest of the movie basically is a conglomeration of a dozen mini-stories, none of which seem to really go anywhere. There's some surprise sea-goddess Calypso who's released by the counsel of Pirates, and then who grows really big and transforms into crabs, which fall in the water and disappear. I thought that when they finally released her, she would unleash all hell on the Armada and the Pirates would end up victorious that way. Instead, she becomes a bunch of crabs and jumps into the water, never to be seen again. Then two pirate ships attack one enemy boat (out of hundreds), on which the captain somehow cannot find the will to shout "Attack" and therefor his boat is destroyed. That boat had double the canons of the two pirate ships combined. It should have pulverized them. Instead, the ship explodes! (Must have been the gasoline??????) Wow! What a Hollywood crap-fest!! After this the 199 other ships get scared of the two pirate ships and run away. How fitting! Genius! I'd have been scared too.Oh yeah, I forgot the marriage scene. The marriage scene was an absolute abomination! I was embarrassed for the filmmakers through the whole thing.This movies was so bad it hurt. The worst movie of the year so far.
__label__2 Well, after seeing Pirates II, I didn't think it was possible for III to be any worse.... I was wrong. This is quite possibly the worst film I have ever seen. I understand that some movies are made just for ridiculous, but fun, action sequences and little or no plot line, and you can definitely tell which movies those are, but this one tried to have a decent plot, and failed miserably. Yes, the action sequences were fantastic and full of some of the most ridiculous stunts imaginable, but they in no way saved the horrible attempt at a plot line. With hardly any character development, far less Jack Sparrow than there should have been, the abandonment of the love triangle, the overly-dramatic attempt for an epic, and the complete lack of trying to be at least somewhat historically correct, the writers have caused cinema to reach a new low.The first problem with the movie is that Jack Sparrow isn't seen for half an hour. Johnny Depp is pretty much what has made the Pirates films. And when you do finally get to see him, he has been downgraded to the status of comic relief, rather than the humorous hero he has played in the past. It is because of this that you actually start to wish that you see less of him. The corny, one-line jokes that just seem to perpetually flow forth from his mouth get old very, very quickly.The second problem is, of course, the total lack of true interaction between the characters. Most of their speech is devoted to furthering the already failing plot, and the little that is actual development of their relationships is poorly written. Though I hated the idea of the love triangle between Will, Elizabeth, and Jack introduced in Pirates II, I was sad to see them completely abandon that idea, acting almost as though it had never happened.The main problem that I had with the plot for this film is that it never really settled down. It was either moving forward far too fast for most of the audience to keep up with, or so dead still that half the audience was falling asleep (though the latter was far rarer). Plus the introduction of so many different plot devices and magic just made the story seem so implausible. I mean, I am a firm believer in the willing suspension of disbelief in small doses (such as the amount of disbelief I had to suspend in the first film), but if I was going to actually enjoy this movie, I would have had to have suspended it for almost the entire length of the film, and that's hard to do for near three hours.And finally, the first film, as far as I know, was pretty much on par in terms of historical accuracy and pirate mythology. That is, it was very true to the era it was based in, and didn't have to add in all sorts of fantastical, magical things to give the film a sense of adventure. The only magic involved was the curse of the medallions. Which, while it may have dominated most of the plot, was rooted in some history and was presented in a plausible way. For that, I can suspend my disbelief. But when they start giving physical manifestations to Davy Jones (granted that was introduced in the second film, but still) and start calling Greek sea-nymphs (Calypso) Pirate goddesses; I'm sorry but I just can't do that. Not to mention them trying to claim that the pirates, as treacherous and murderous as they were, were actually all united under one flag is just ridiculous. No historical value (and very weak story value) whatsoever.All in all, this film surpassed how terrible I expected it to be so horribly that I am honestly considering walking back to the theater and asking for compensation for the three wasted hours of my life.
__label__2 A disappointing sequel. The special effects were great, but the humour was slapstick at best and the plot (such as it was) seemed little more than a vague attempt to connect one CGI scene to the next. I appreciate that the series is based on a theme park ride and that I shouldn't expect Chekhov, but I enjoyed the first film for its imagination and sense of fun. However this third outing cast aside all ideas of story and seemed to have run out of any ideas beyond "make it bigger and louder".I would suggest that this effort is a definite case of more being decidedly less. Very poor.
__label__2 The trivia section states that they started filming this before a script was completed, and boy does it show! It appears in order to come up with a script they got 5 twelve year old boys with hyperactivity ADD who wrote scripts independently of each other and had them randomly spliced together for the final script. The result was gobsmackingly incoherent. Random and contrived plots popping in and then fizzling out, which isn't helped by the terrible acting. Orlando Bloom, and Keira Knightly were so wooden I got splinters. Keira's method of acting seems to be reading from an autocue and then pouting. However there are some great special effects; but who is impressed by special effects anymore?A good liar will keep talking but say nothing, and this is exactly what this film does. Lots of fluff but no narrative.
