__label__2 I'm giving this movie a 2/10 because undeniably the art and beauty that is the setting of Avatar is outstanding. It's a gorgeous movie but I find it offensive as a movie-goer that we should be expected just to like a movie because the hype and a gorgeous setting. <NEWLINE> This movie severely lacked plot and character development, especially the latter. The main character had some depth but the supporting cast had very little, and I did not feel at all attached to their causes or goals. The movie was far too long to cover as little as it did, there was more to uncover about the characters, their past, and how they interacted with one another but it was shown through quickly progressing scenes, with little dialogue relying on the score and beauty of the setting to speed us through the time of the movie. Months were shown over the matter of minutes, which would be okay if they had some fully formed characters I could believe in, but that was not the case here. <NEWLINE> As mentioned in other reviews, the plot originality is severely lacking, I found myself during nearly the entire movie thinking.."oh this is just like that movie" or "that is just like this movie". That's not to say that similar themes are recycled in many modern movies, but this one wasn't even cobbled together convincingly to be its own story, you can see the loose threads of other movies everywhere, only turned into a Avatar themed world. Clichés abound here.  <NEWLINE> This movie is getting way more positive reviews than it deserves probably because of the expert animation/visual effects and the huge hype before hand. It's disappointed to see such a sub-par movie getting such a fabulous reaction from movie-goers, we deserve better. Hype+Stunning Visual Effects does not equal great cinema.
__label__2 Jake Sully (Sam Worthington) is a paraplegic Marine who travels to the world of Pandora to do what he thinks is protecting the Earth. The natives of that world are said to be vicious and cruel. By transforming into one of them in his sleep (or something) he realizes they are NOT the evil ones and he begins to have serious doubts about his mission. This leads to an all out battle at the end. <NEWLINE> Basically this is cowboys vs. Indians in outer space. This is VERY easy to follow and understand which is the main problem. Everything here is totally and utterly predictable! You've seen these characters and situations all before. I was always one or two steps ahead on the plot and this isn't good for a movie that runs a needless 165 minutes. This could have easily been wrapped up in 90 minutes. Some people find getting into the world of the aliens is fascinating. I wasn't fascinated at all--just thoroughly and utterly bored! To make matters worse the dialogue is on the level of an Archie comic book and the characters are either evil or good--no shades of grey or ambiguity. The movie also preaches it's against war but "entertains" us with an all out battle at the end. Lots of people agree that the plot is light but the incredible special effects make up for it. Not for me! Yeah the special effects are impressive (especially in 3-D) but that isn't enough for such a long movie with a dull storyline. I can't really comment on the acting here considering no one is given a character to play--they're all walking, talking clichés. Only two people stand out--Sam Worthington and Sigourney Weaver. Worthington is very handsome with beautiful eyes and a cute little Australian accent. Weaver is strong and commanding playing a scientist. <NEWLINE> I will admit the battle at the end was (kind of) fun but I was mostly bored silly throughout this. I kept looking at my watch patiently waiting for this to end. I have to admit I'm in the minority here. It's gotten rave reviews from critics and has already broken box office records. I attended a 4:30 show on a Saturday afternoon--and it was sold out! It's also among the top 50 movies here on IMDb. I guess a lot of people like predictable stories with non-stop special effects and cardboard characters. I need something more than that. The 2 is only for the effects and hot Worthington.
__label__2 Sure, the effects ARE excellent- but what a dreadful waste of effects. Surely, at some point, someone must have pointed out to the powers that be that the film contains nothing new.  <NEWLINE> If a film like this wins any awards for anything except special effects it is, surely, an indictment of the low value we put on original (or even interesting) work. The elements of a wonderful story COULD be there but it seems that the special effects budget was more important than the screen writing budget.  <NEWLINE> Dreadfully disappointed with the film and hope that others see it for "The Emperor's New Clothes" that it is. Come on Hollywood you can do far better than this!
__label__2 I was extremely disappointed with this film. I should have known by the way people talked about the "looks" instead of the plot. Imagine this film without CGI and it probably would be just another Saturday morning cartoon. If they had to use old-school costumes and make-up this thing would have fallen flat. <NEWLINE> The target audience seemed to be the kids who watch Saturday morning cartoons. The story line would only challenge the brain of a 6 year old. <NEWLINE> But let's cut straight to the heart of the matter: the CGI. OK, so the computer can create some neat images. Got it. But I find beauty more in the Discovery channel's "Life" and "Planet Earth" then in this movie. For example, the characters walk like those in Sim Life - jerky. The characters were nowhere close to the "alive" imagery of Toy Story. <NEWLINE> The beasts with the thick-skin were just another mutant thing and the "horses" were blocky and weak. The flying birds were the only exception to nice flow and appearance in my eye. <NEWLINE> And consider the way the final fight scene showed a robot (think Iron Man) that moved better than a human being can...all by a joystick. The thing weighs tons but moved like a ballerina. Please! When it reached above its head to grab the main character I started laughing...don't tell me the thing has eyes on the top of its head or a brain to operate it. Sad. <NEWLINE> Scene after scene was met with a furrowed brow. We have Weaver's avatar looking like a poorly animated Tomb Raider. We have Weaver wrapped in green vegetation (when, how and why left unanswered). We have futuristic helicopters (sort of) but old-school wheelchairs. <NEWLINE> We have a smelly alien somehow getting in good with the planet's inhabitants. And not just fitting in, but moving up the ranks to one of the top leadership position. <NEWLINE> We have a red bird (the rest are green-blue) that didn't pick him, broke the rule of "only one bird" and I'm not sure that was enough to convince the people that this fainting stranger could now lead 2,000 to victory. <NEWLINE> We have sleep pods that have a big red button on them, but in the future we obviously can't shut them down any other way. We have helicopters that can leave a military installation (with big doors) without resistance and without any pursuit. <NEWLINE> We have a big tree as the home that is destroyed and THEN we discover other clans exist and don't live in trees. Do they hook up their ponytails to the water, grass, or clouds? The race comes across as passive since they sat around and waited to be over-ran, yet every scene of the daughter's suitor indicated warriors. At the beginning they were feared for their size and poisoned arrows, but by the end the wooden sticks were laughed at. Which is it? Seriously, this was a cartoon. And had I sat down one Saturday morning to watch it with my nephews I would have wondered when it was going to end. Yuck.
