__label__5 I was not blown away by this movie like everyone else seems to be. First, the good stuff. There are some good actors in here, especially the actor who plays Jake (though I might be biased, because he was pretty hot), and they all commit to what they're doing and make it believable. As everyone says, the graphics and visuals are pretty freakin' awesome (as well they should be, with the budget of this movie). The world that Cameron creates is stunning, mesmerizing, and pure: the special effects are amazing. Like many, I saw it in 3D and it was good old fashioned movie-going fun. Yay! Okay, now for the not so good parts. As others have stated, the storyline/plot is a little lacking. I had trouble understanding the motivations of many of the characters. Ah, yes, character development - that would have been nice, too. Don't expect any. Yes, it's a recycled and re-used plot: clichéd and often predictable. It seems reminiscent of many great classics, my favorite being "Star Wars." Now I'll be the first to admit that the mythical structure of "Star Wars" was not completely original, but at least it seemed Lucas "made it his own" (to quote American Idol?) with his original characters and unique setting. "Avatar" is practically plagiarism (one line in particular made me want to shout "THE FORCE!" in the middle of the movie). Also- we get practically no character background at all, so we have no idea what makes these people tick (perhaps there would have been more if the edited version wasn't already a staggering 2 hrs 40 min.). Instead, we get one-dimensional, stock characters that had me rolling my eyes underneath my uncomfortable and overpriced 3D glasses. Lastly, the film is doused with lessons in morality from Mr. Cameron; it is a blatant criticism of US foreign policy. Not everyone will pick up on this, which I understand, since most of us want mindless entertainment at the movies. But upon closer review, I don't see how some people cannot see it. One of the "evil" characters actually says: "We'll fight terror with terror!" (Though mind you, they are attacking a planet filled with peaceful inhabitants who have never attacked them, for the simple quest of obtaining a precious metal called...unobtainium...::rolls eyes again::) Now I don't mind a little political satire here and there, but it seems misplaced in what is seemingly intended as a mindlessly entertaining popcorn flick.To give an example of the poor story-telling and lack of motivation: the "evil" humans are attacking the peaceful planet of Pandora in hopes of getting more "unobtainium" (gah it's so cheesy) but Cameron never bothers to tell us WHY. It is barely even mentioned. Is it just pretty and shiny like gold? Or, as another reviewer brilliantly pointed out, this stuff could save lives on Earth for all we know. It is never explained and the movie makers just assume you will accept it and not care what the reason is. I was actually really glad to come to IMDb and find there were others who felt the same way. I don't think it was an awful movie, I just don't think it's worthy of the enormous praise that seems to surround it. Should you see it? Yeah, sure, it's pretty entertaining I guess. And if you are into graphics/special effects, and/or don't mind gaping plot holes, then you'll probably love it.Bottom line: Remember when Lucas revamped the "Star Wars" saga with the three new prequels, and instead of telling a great story with interesting characters like he did with the original trilogy, he got so obsessed with graphics and special effects that it pretty much ruined the whole movie? Yeah, it's kind of like that. I guess they stole that from "Star Wars," too.
__label__5 James Cameron's long-awaited Titanic follow-up is very pretty to look at but suffers from a flimsy plot and astoundingly stupid plot development. The characters are one dimensional, both as written and as portrayed, and there's hardly anything unpredictable. The only thing this movie has going for it are its state-of-the-art effects, which are truly boggling.Sam Worthington plays Jake, a paraplegic ex-Marine who's sent to a distant moon to help humans mine a mineral called unobtainium (in the running for the least creative chemical name ever). Seems there's a huge cache of the stuff under a huge tree in a jungle that's populated by an indigenous race called the Na'vi, blue-skinned, really tall people with feline characteristics. Meanwhile, a scientific program headed by Grace Augustine (played by a typically stiff Sigourney Weaver) has focused on learning as much as possible about the Na'vi in order to benefit scientific knowledge. Augustine's research (funded by the same company who's mining the unobtainium) involves the use of avatars, in which scientists form a psychological link with a mock-up that looks just like a native Na'Vi, the better for the humans to exist within the unbreathable atmosphere. Jake gets inside the Na'vi within his avatar and attempts to find out what they would want in exchange for moving from away from the giant store of unobtainium; during the course of his mission, he falls for the Na'vi chief's daughter, Neytiri (Zoe Saldana). (Of course he does.) And as said mission drags on, Jake's perspective changes from meathead jerk to tree-loving jerk, and he begins to wonder if what he's doing is right.Is he serious? You're an alien race (humans) and have no business on this moon. Your employer's stated goal is to gobble up all the jewels he can find, basically raping the planet. Your employer will stop at nothing to get it, as he answers to no one. You're being sent down to find a diplomatic way to screw the natives out of the bounty on which they sit. And he thinks this might be wrong? A power grab ensues when the military leader of the human expedition, a Colonel Quaritch (Stephen Lang) decides enough is enough and wants to bomb the hell out of the Na'vi, with the approval of the head of the company, Parker Selfridge (Giovanni Ribisi), another patently obvious name. This sets up the rather obvious showdown between the primitive Na'vi and the gung-ho ex-Marine humans, who have missiles and guns and ammo and rockets and helicopters and who knows, even a Star Destroyer or two. The final battle scene is overtly reminiscent of the Battle of Endor in Return of the Jedi, in which the primitive Ewoks manage to defeat a stormtrooper army using only their quick wits and some old-school, homemade traps of destruction.But even if the plot doesn't need to be complex, it sure ought to make sense. Here's a nonspoiler question to ponder. Jake, under the guise of his avatar, is taken in by the Na'vi, whose spiritual leader asks Neytiri to teach Jake their ways. Why this is to be is not terribly clear. It's evident that the humans have made several attempts at learning the ways of the Na'vi but that prior emissaries had been scientists; as soon as Jake tells the Na'vi that he's a warrior, they're all about teaching him. I don't quite follow the logic here; if I were the Na'vi and had not been able to teach the smart humans who obviously (to me) were not there to do me harm, why in the world would I want to teach someone who's used to using aggression and violence to solve problems? I get that the Na'vi, as a warrior race, would relate more to the soldier, but surely they would be reluctant to share knowledge with someone who was outside of their group anyway, let alone with one who might well do them harm.Moreover, I'm not sure what the Na'vi thought Jake was, really. He looked like them, through his avatar, but they referred to him at least once as an alien. My best guess is that they just thought he was from another clan. Other clan? I'll assume that only this one clan, the Omaticaya, made its home at Hometree (yet another clumsy naming convention) and therefore was the only clan with a stake in protecting it. But if they simply thought Jake was from another clan, why did they let him in anyway? Why did they teach him? What purpose would it serve them? And on top of that, since the Omaticaya mentioned being approached by "aliens" before, doesn't it seem more likely that they would have assumed Jake was another alien ambassador anyway? This makes my brain hurt.I think it's pretty obvious that Cameron wanted this to be his own Star Wars, an epic taking place on a distant world. He uses the standard Cameron recipe of astounding special effects and innovation coupled with a weak plot and laughable characters and hopes it all comes out okay (although for a movie that gestated for more than a decade, that's simplifying things a bit). The effects, it should be noted, are really mesmerizing visuals of the jaw-dropping variety. The 3D effects were unbelievable, and I mean that in a good way. Avatar is extraordinarily shot, using 60% CGI and 40% live action, and the two elements are flawlessly intertwined. It's a remarkable film.But it's only part of a film. the entire movie seems to try pretty hard to keep some emotional distance from its audience, and when a film is emotionally uninvolving, it's lost the battle for your heart.And that's the core problem. Despite some wonderful, beautiful effects, Avatar gives us characters in whom we can't really get invested, and when a key element of your story is an interspecies romance, this is a crucial, fatal flaw.
__label__5 A crashing bore. There is almost no real reason to see this film. As you could probably tell from the previews or other plot descriptions, it is a virtual remake of Dances with Wolves, but starring elongated, CGI, blue aliens. Yet even that movie wasn't nearly as patronizing with its noble savage bullcrap. I am not exaggerating when I say I have almost never seen a less imaginative movie. But what about the visuals, you say? Well, they are pretty, and the CGI is better than it has ever been in the past. But I'd say it isn't even close to a huge step forward. A pretty tiny step, really, from The Lord of the Rings' Gollum. The (motion captured) faces look more expressive than Gollum's. But they still have far to go before the CGI creations look "photo-realistic", as the idiotic Cameron likes to describe his cartoon characters and settings. And they still haven't worked out just how to move CGI characters - they still don't look like they exist in any kind of real world outside of a computer hard drive. But I guess by now I have to accept filmmakers are always going to rely on CGI, and it's always going to look like a cartoon. I have to say, I did mostly enjoy it when Cameron was introducing new jungle creatures (I think the final tally is about nine different species of animals that live on the planet), but both the flora and the fauna are reminiscent of black light posters and prog-rock album covers (I'll credit Jim Emerson for tipping me toward that, but I knew even in the previews that everything looked a little too familiar). And the N'avi? They're Native Americans. Cameron's allegory is easily the thinnest I've ever seen in a major motion picture. Some critics have argued about how it allegorically relates to current American military woes, but, frankly, if Cameron intended any of it, he screws it up royally by making the N'avi 100% justified in whatever they do. It's every bit as black and white as anything George W. Bush ever said. I'm sure he loves the Hell out of this film. And, even if I tried to just shut off my brain (pretty impossible), so much of the ride is uneventful. If not for the film's final half hour, which is comprised of the big battle, I'd probably call this the worst film of the year. As it is, I'd probably rather sit through Transformers 2 again. At least I can marvel at the audaciousness of Michael Bay's tastelessness. It's better than Cameron's utter blandness.
__label__5 Avatar is a five-out-of-ten-star film. Not bad, but not excellent by any means.Avatar fails for several reasons: 1) It's a Vietnam film (albeit with a SF bent), many many years too late. The Vietnam film started with "Apocalypse Now" and finished with "Full Metal Jacket", and the canon includes everything in between. There was no reason to rehash it and nothing has been achieved by doing so. Cameron adds nothing to the Vietnam genre, nor the SF world.2) Despite the nice (but only "nice") backstory that exists for the Na'Vi and the white Americans (who represent all human beings, of course), the story itself is dull, predictable and not worth the time it takes to tell (some /ten-star/ reviews on IMDb even knowledge this - nuts!) In fact, story-wise it's a very expensive b-movie. The characters are unsympathetic (white knucklehead soldier has coming of age experience with foreign land/culture/woman; James Cameron forces another woman (or the same woman, for the second time) into a man's costume/role/story arc), and there are few surprises or story developments to reward our patience. The casting is also very woolly - Worthington, like his character, is expendible, Weaver chews scenery and channels too much Ripley, Rodriguez is rubbish /again/, and Lang is almost cartoonish (although, in many ways his performance sits the most comfortably).3) The Na'Vi are irritatingly orientalist. They are a quite unsubtle blend of the United States' lack of understanding of Asian and African cultures. While Sam Worthington's blundering has a certain quality of self-reflexiveness, ultimately, the Na'vi culture is a collection of "preconceived archetypes which envision all 'Eastern' societies as fundamentally similar to one another, and fundamentally dissimilar to 'Western' societies." 4) The digital looks crappy, even (especially?) in 3D. The neon green/blue palette does for cinema what it does for cars - makes it look falsely flash and after a while it reveals its shallowness. Also, the Na'Vi feel false, wooden, despite their 3D Mo-Cap yadda-yadda technology. Sorry, but Jim Henson's stuff still feels exponentially more real than this simply because the things captured by the camera WERE REAL! I would compare Avatar to the Hammer film "One Million Years BC": essentially a good b-movie with effects that are impressive but definitely "of their time", making the film itself a curio of the same.I predict that this will be James Cameron's greatest flop, dollar-for-dollar, soundbite-for-soundbite. Don't get carried away by the King Of The World's hype.
__label__5 And so it is proved, once again, that making a good trilogy isn't easy.Sure, they did a good job in further repeating the now already 'typical pirates humor', portraying Sparrow as the somewhat clumsy yet always charming captain and, well, once again Keira was there to please the male eye. All of this probably because they hoped that this way we wouldn't notice that pirates III actually has... well... no story to it.The same thing we saw happening with The Matrix: first movie is new, original and has a little something for everyone, in the second one they re-use the story, but add just a little twist and cover it all up with good visual effects. And come the third one, they've got no story left to tell and set the bar so high for themselves it's nearly impossible to reach it anymore, so they just fall back on the old reliable 'success of the other two movies'.One thing I actually did like were the visual effects, and the amount of detail found in every single scene. That obviously took a lot of time and effort. Too bad that after seeing an army of undead pirates walking on the bottom of the ocean in the first movie, and a whole crew of half-man-half-sea-creatures in the second one, expectations were so high I was bound to being disappointed.Yeah, nice locations too, again very detailed and everything, but I'm almost sorry I even noticed that, for my intentions were actually to follow the story (you know, tie all those loose ends Pirates I and II left us with) but all I heard coming out of the actor's mouths was "blablabla *insert typical Jack Sparrow quote here* blabla" As for the action scenes I can be quite brief: the first two movies they almost had me believing it just might even be possible (the three-man-fight on the big wheel in Pirates II not included), but this time they obviously got carried away. Even a child who 'wants to be a pirate when he grows up, just like captain Sparrow' will go out to find a more credible role model after seeing this movie.All in all, I rated the movie 5 out of 10. They put a lot of work into the visual aspect of it all, but failed to live up to all the rest of my expectations.
__label__5 You know those wax deserts that they bring out at restaurants like Johnny Carino's and Red Lobster. They look really good, but try taking a bite out of it and all you get is a mouth full of wax. That's how Pirates of the Caribbean at World's End made me feel. It has amazing visuals. Duh. Every special effects movie made from here to the end of eternity is going to have amazing visuals. If you haven't noticed by now nerds with computers can do some really cool stuff if you throw enough money at them. Back in the 90's good visuals could carry a movie, like say, Independence Day, but they can't do it any more. In the past 10 years we've seen people fly and dodge bullets in slow motion, we've seen New York City destroyed in a disturbingly large variety of ways, we've seen the armies of Rohan ride to the rescue of Gondor crushing orcs under foot, we've seen every imaginable object or animal anthropomorphized from toys, to cars, to penguins several times over. All that to say you can't just impress me with visuals anymore. I demand a story I can follow and enjoy; is that too much to ask of a good movie? I'm not asking for Dickens, not even Tom Clancy, just a passable story that an intelligent person can follow. Pirates doesn't give me this. And more than that, it takes lovable characters and diminishes them by placing them into this joke of a script. You know why the first Pirates movie was good? I didn't know a person who sat down to watch it who didn't like it. Now 90% of the audience is walking out of the theaters scratching their heads.
__label__5 The third (hopefully final) film for Pirates of the Caribbean will attempt to be everything fans would hope for in a concluding trilogy, attempt being the key word here. Short of the few odd adult males attending in full pirate gear though, I am pretty sure most viewers ended up feeling At World's End's excessive running time. Appeasing die-hard fans (apparently there are more then we think) of the franchise to an exhausting degree, the film lumbers back and forth between various back-stabbings and double-crossings going on in Jack Sparrow's crew, all to tediously apathetic results. Likewise, the unnecessarily dense script tries too earnestly to explain all the hackneyed mythology brought up in the first two films and instead makes viewers care even less.As as result, At World's End is not nearly as pleasurable as the first two's narrative arc would indicate. Bogged down by the detail-oriented plot, casual moviegoers will hardly get most details introduced previously in the series, let alone retain interest in these relatively obscure elements. It seems as if scribes Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio (both having written all three), realized the huge phenomenon Pirates had become, and spent their last screenplay vainly trying to justify all of the minor plot devices they thought viewers were interested in. They overvalued the specifics of this plot and in turn robbed the film of the one thing everybody loves; personality. Instead of letting characters breathe a little more on screen to make a lasting impression, At World's End spends a three hour run time ensuring viewers that every trite plot element from all three films will be given adequate closure.Faulting the cast and crew would be wrong; At World's End continues the impeccable production values and credible performances that initially set this ship off into our collective wallets. Here though, the over-bloated script just makes the over-boated set design even more frustrating. Once the film's obnoxiously extended and over-the-top finale is underway, the excitement leading up to that perilous showdown has all but been extinguished. The film will still do well in theaters and rightfully so; there is enough big-budget mayhem intercut throughout the epic bore to ensure seats will be filled. But Pirates 3 will remain in my eyes a quintessential warning to all potential popcorn franchises as to not take themselves too seriously, despite any success hinting to the contrary.
__label__5 In spite of a talented cast, a remarkably appealing concept, and all the money in the world, Pirates 3 falls sadly short of satisfying.As promised, it was visually appealing, with special effects on a scale to match its epic image. But, like all things of unnecessary grandeur, the effects are compensating for something... the absence of which detracted significantly from the movie experience. A purpose. True, entertainment can be considered a purpose, and it is here for the finding, but entertainment need not be as painfully drawn out as this.So, if not entertainment, what is the point? Certainly not to tell a unique or provocative story. It's absolutely baffling how a film with a stomach-churning number of plot twists can still be predictable.The final result is that neither casting, (the inclusion of Keith Richards while unnecessary, was inspired) expensive effects, nor a plot as twisted as the tentacles of the Kraken can rescue these Pirates from utter vacuousness.Yet it doesn't seem to matter, Pirates 3 is an inevitable blockbuster. This Pirates owes its predestined box office success to 2003's "The Curse of the Black Pearl", an exceptional film, easily eclipsing its counterparts in quality, entertainment, and does so in less time. Perhaps guaranteed success will assuage the guilt on the part of the filmmakers for inflicting this film upon audiences worldwide. Or perhaps audiences are simply foolish to expect anything of substance from pirates such as these.
