__label__8 I had the rather intense privilege to view James Cameron's much anticipated $400 million budget return to the directing scene, Avatar, at the Empire Leicester Square in London. <NEWLINE> Where to begin! The visuals in this pieces was groundbreaking. He did it with the Terminator series and then Titanic, so one would expect Cameron to deliver... and HE DID! The visual are by far some of the sharpest CGI I have seen. You could almost say that there is a disquiet that follows Cameron's soul, as there is no other possibility of this strong and intensified quality. Its production design and visual effects are both noteworthy and it will get its praise upon official release. <NEWLINE> What it was lacking that really should have shaped the movie is its character/story. I was expecting a complex and believable plot, but was left with a movie with mostly strong visuals. What most sci-fi lovers desire is mind-bending philosophies, fantasy and exploration and limitations of our or outer species. If it was not for this factor, I would give this a 9.5 vote. <NEWLINE> Avatar will be a success, not only because of Cameron's legacy, but by very intelligent and viral marketing. Avatar have had a powerful marketing technique that assembles other successful blockbusters, such as The Blair Witch project (you all remember it), The Dark Knight (Joker invades the world) and also, the current production The Artifice (the-artifice.com) that is intelligently targeting the market. <NEWLINE> Kudos to Cameron, Avatar is one of the (if not The) movie of the year. I could get in trouble for sharing this with you guys so early, so please click Yes on "Was the above comment useful to you?" as a thank you. ;)
__label__8 I am sure my comment will be lost in a sea of blue but anyways here goes... <NEWLINE> Just attended the Advanced Screening at my local "Event Cinema" BCC in 3D <NEWLINE> Now this movies graphics are gorgeous, everything is so real, the 3D just adds to the effect beautifully without distracting you. <NEWLINE> From a technical standpoint this movie is amazing, just the detail on the Navi's faces are amazing, they feel more real then their real life counterparts! <NEWLINE> Without giving anything away about the story, the plot itself is very solid, very character driven and perfectly executed by Jim, safe to say this is his best original story since "The Terminator" and "Terminator 2" and is definitely one of his best movies, so good it ties with T2 which is my most favorite movie of all time... <NEWLINE> So for those of you who have not seen this yet... WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR?! <NEWLINE> 5/5
__label__8 Well, I'm going to have to give this movie a full rating because it really lived up to my expectations. <NEWLINE> We have here a science-fiction epic set on an alien world. It's a classic story of a "good-guy" hero who must overcome a battle within himself to do what is right. <NEWLINE> Although the movie doesn't exactly have the biggest twists, turns, or surprises, it simply sets out to do what movies like "Star Wars" (the ones in the 70s, and 80s, that is) did... to stun us a little with the latest in special FX, give us a classic "Romanesque" story, and enchant us with a very creative world. This movie did what it set out to do, perfectly... and maybe even a little better than perfect. <NEWLINE> The world is so detailed, and rich. Every animal looks as if it is real... and everything just matches and seems convincing. The "humanoid" race that inhabits this world is very interesting, and the way the world works "together" is amazing. This may be one of the few sci-fi adventure movies where the computer animation actually works in favor of the storyline. Animals and beings do not look like animations. This realism, this pushing of the limits, is what science fiction is all about. <NEWLINE> But you obviously cannot have just a beautiful movie without no storyline or character to back it up. There is a lot of character in this movie. All of our human characters, the alien race, and the avatars all equally have great character. And the storyline, although nothing extraordinarily original, is chiseled from "classic" storytelling. Good versus evil... doing what is right... all spun neatly together. <NEWLINE> What a wonderful escape this was! It was dazzling, and even got me thinking a little about what life is really out there on the various billions of stars that make up our galaxy, and the other billions of galaxies out there. <NEWLINE> And that's what movies like this should do.
__label__8 12 years ago, James Cameron had a vision of Avatar in mind. A vision so ahead of its time that Cameron shelved his project in order to wait for the technology to catch up. A vision so imaginative &amp; exciting that he, finally, went on to create the much needed technology on his own. And the end result was NOT disappointing at all. Avatar takes film-making technology to a whole new level &amp; sets a new standard in 3D viewing. It's a milestone in the history of the art. <NEWLINE> Avatar tells the story of Jake Sully, a paraplegic marine dispatched to the moon Pandora on a unique mission who becomes torn between following his orders &amp; protecting the world he feels is his home. Avatar is primarily an action-adventure journey of self-discovery, in the context of imperialism &amp; biodiversity. Avatar brings us as close as cinema ever has to actually visiting an alien world. So, watch it in 3D cinemas only if you really want to experience the breathtaking vision of Cameron's world. <NEWLINE> Director James Cameron has, once again, broken all boundaries &amp; created a visual extravaganza, thus, in the process, announcing his return which just couldn't have been better. From Terminator to Aliens to The Abyss to Terminator 2 to Titanic &amp; now Avatar, the entertainment scope is getting wider &amp; wider with every Cameron's film without compromising at all with the quality. The attention he has given to the detail is superb. Not only Cameron created a whole new world with its flora &amp; fauna of exceptional beauty, he went on to create the culture, race &amp; language of the Na'vi too &amp; their love for their surroundings. They are to Pandora what humans are to Earth. Only difference being our ignorance to our surroundings. <NEWLINE> Avatar isn't an exceptional movie, overall. When it comes to plot, performances or dialogs, its a disappointment. Those things are no match to Cameron's previous works; Terminator, Aliens, Terminator 2 &amp; even Titanic. The reason behind Avatar breaking every box-office records lies in the beauty of Avatar that's drawing people to theaters again &amp; again. The unforgettable experience in 3D viewing, the dead-end beauty of Pandora, the never-seen-before film-making technology &amp; much satisfying entertainment overall are all responsible for its grand success. It has started the change. It has set things in motion. Cinema is getting revolutionized. Almost every movie is going 3D these days because of Avatar. Still, none have been able to recreate that same magic or experience. That's why, Avatar is way ahead of it's time. <NEWLINE> Now, let's come to the strong points of Avatar. It lies in its visual effects, editing &amp; cinematography. Editing, like any Cameron movie, is brilliant. The cinematography brings us closer to the beautiful environment, the exotic creatures &amp; incredibly lifelike natives of Pandora. Those who watched it in 3D knows how heartwarming the feeling was to find yourself in the flora &amp; fauna of Pandora. However, the backbone of Avatar is its visual effects. Groundbreaking from scene 1, it's not the surroundings but the details of the surroundings because of which Visual Effects of Avatar reached new heights. World's 2 greatest visual effects studios, ILM &amp; Weta Digital, worked together to produce this gem, and the results are wonderful. The attention in detailing &amp; the magnitude scale of Pandora are sure to leave viewers jaw-dropped. Just the detailing on the face of a Na'vi is enough to tell you about the dedication involved in its making. <NEWLINE> Technically, Avatar is a breakthrough in film-making technology, 3D viewing &amp; stereoscopic film-making with camera being designed specifically for the movie. If one looks at the story, it isn't that bad too. Of course not the best or even among the best, but still, it has all elements of entertaining the general audience of the world &amp; that's what this movie is doing right now. At least, James Cameron knows how to invest and properly use the massive budget of this movie, unlike Michael Bay(Transformers 1 n 2) or Roland Emmerich(2012, Godzilla etc) who rely only on VFX &amp; nothing else. At least, Avatar scores pretty well above them. It tells a fine story &amp; let VFX n SFX take this movie to new heights. <NEWLINE> James Horner collaborated with James Cameron for the 3rd time (after Titanic &amp; Aliens) &amp; no doubt, has given a brilliant soundtrack yet again. The score is not as epic as Titanic but is still excellent for a sci-fi film. The score is really beautiful &amp; succeeds in creating the music culture for the alien race. The beauty of the music of Avatar blends well with the beauty of Pandora. James Horner has done a fantastic job. <NEWLINE> Also, the story or screenplay of Avatar won't make it to the great lists. So, its better you go without expecting a quality plot &amp; screenplay from this movie but a feast for the eyes. And make sure you watch Avatar in 3D for an all new experience. You won't regret it. Missing Avatar would be like missing a turning point in cinema. So be a part of it. <NEWLINE> 10/10 for Avatar's beauty &amp; the wonderful experience I had in theater.
